=== ORIGINAL (HASH1) ===
URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.00010

[2401.00010] Professional Network Matters: Connections Empower Person-Job Fit Skip to main content In just 5 minutes help us improve arXiv: Annual Global Survey We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:2401.00010 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Social and Information Networks arXiv:2401.00010 (cs) [Submitted on 19 Dec 2023] Title: Professional Network Matters: Connections Empower Person-Job Fit Authors: Hao Chen , Lun Du , Yuxuan Lu , Qiang Fu , Xu Chen , Shi Han , Yanbin Kang , Guangming Lu , Zi Li View a PDF of the paper titled Professional Network Matters: Connections Empower Person-Job Fit, by Hao Chen and 8 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: Online recruitment platforms typically employ Person-Job Fit models in the core service that automatically match suitable job seekers with appropriate job positions. While existing works leverage historical or contextual information, they often disregard a crucial aspect: job seekers' social relationships in professional networks. This paper emphasizes the importance of incorporating professional networks into the Person-Job Fit model. Our innovative approach consists of two stages: (1) defining a Workplace Heterogeneous Information Network (WHIN) to capture heterogeneous knowledge, including professional connections and pre-training representations of various entities using a heterogeneous graph neural network; (2) designing a Contextual Social Attention Graph Neural Network (CSAGNN) that supplements users' missing information with professional connections' contextual information. We introduce a job-specific attention mechanism in CSAGNN to handle noisy professional networks, leveraging pre-trained entity representations from WHIN. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach through experimental evaluations conducted across three real-world recruitment datasets from LinkedIn, showing superior performance compared to baseline models. Comments: Accepted at WSDM 2024 Subjects: Social and Information Networks (cs.SI) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG) Cite as: arXiv:2401.00010 [cs.SI] (or arXiv:2401.00010v1 [cs.SI] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2401.00010 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Hao Chen [ view email ] [v1] Tue, 19 Dec 2023 06:44:44 UTC (786 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Professional Network Matters: Connections Empower Person-Job Fit, by Hao Chen and 8 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.SI < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-01 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status

=== RESEARCH (HASH2) ===
url: https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.00010 [2401.00010] professional network matters: connections empower person-job fit skip to main content in just 5 minutes help us improve arxiv: annual global survey we gratefully acknowledge support from the simons foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. donate > cs > arxiv:2401.00010 help | advanced search all fields title author abstract comments journal reference acm classification msc classification report number arxiv identifier doi orcid arxiv author id help pages full text search open search go open navigation menu quick links login help pages about computer science > social and information networks arxiv:2401.00010 (cs) [submitted on 19 dec 2023] title: professional network matters: connections empower person-job fit authors: hao chen , lun du , yuxuan lu , qiang fu , xu chen , shi han , yanbin kang , guangming lu , zi li view a pdf of the paper titled professional network matters: connections empower person-job fit, by hao chen and 8 other authors view pdf html (experimental) abstract: online recruitment platforms typically employ person-job fit models in the core service that automatically match suitable job seekers with appropriate job positions. while existing works leverage historical or contextual information, they often disregard a crucial aspect: job seekers' social relationships in professional networks. this paper emphasizes the importance of incorporating professional networks into the person-job fit model. our innovative approach consists of two stages: (1) defining a workplace heterogeneous information network (whin) to capture heterogeneous knowledge, including professional connections and pre-training representations of various entities using a heterogeneous graph neural network; (2) designing a contextual social attention graph neural network (csagnn) that supplements users' missing information with professional connections' contextual information. we introduce a job-specific attention mechanism in csagnn to handle noisy professional networks, leveraging pre-trained entity representations from whin. we demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach through experimental evaluations conducted across three real-world recruitment datasets from linkedin, showing superior performance compared to baseline models. comments: accepted at wsdm 2024 subjects: social and information networks (cs.si) ; machine learning (cs.lg) cite as: arxiv:2401.00010 [cs.si] (or arxiv:2401.00010v1 [cs.si] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2401.00010 focus to learn more arxiv-issued doi via datacite submission history from: hao chen [ view email ] [v1] tue, 19 dec 2023 06:44:44 utc (786 kb) full-text links: access paper: view a pdf of the paper titled professional network matters: connections empower person-job fit, by hao chen and 8 other authors view pdf html (experimental) tex source view license current browse context: cs.si < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-01 change to browse by: cs cs.lg references & citations nasa ads google scholar semantic scholar export bibtex citation loading... bibtex formatted citation × loading... data provided by: bookmark bibliographic tools bibliographic and citation tools bibliographic explorer toggle bibliographic explorer ( what is the explorer? ) connected papers toggle connected papers ( what is connected papers? ) litmaps toggle litmaps ( what is litmaps? ) scite.ai toggle scite smart citations ( what are smart citations? ) code, data, media code, data and media associated with this article alphaxiv toggle alphaxiv ( what is alphaxiv? ) links to code toggle catalyzex code finder for papers ( what is catalyzex? ) dagshub toggle dagshub ( what is dagshub? ) gotitpub toggle gotit.pub ( what is gotitpub? ) huggingface toggle hugging face ( what is huggingface? ) links to code toggle papers with code ( what is papers with code? ) sciencecast toggle sciencecast ( what is sciencecast? ) demos demos replicate toggle replicate ( what is replicate? ) spaces toggle hugging face spaces ( what is spaces? ) spaces toggle txyz.ai ( what is txyz.ai? ) related papers recommenders and search tools link to influence flower influence flower ( what are influence flowers? ) core recommender toggle core recommender ( what is core? ) author venue institution topic about arxivlabs arxivlabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arxivlabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arxiv features directly on our website. both individuals and organizations that work with arxivlabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arxiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. have an idea for a project that will add value for arxiv's community? learn more about arxivlabs . which authors of this paper are endorsers? | disable mathjax ( what is mathjax? ) about help contact arxiv click here to contact arxiv contact subscribe to arxiv mailings click here to subscribe subscribe copyright privacy policy web accessibility assistance arxiv operational status

=== CHAIN (HASH3) ===
zip_coin_index: 10
total_zipcoins: 12
hash_label: HASH-3

