litmaps toggle litmaps ( what is litmaps? ) scite.ai toggle scite smart citations ( what are smart citations? ) code, data, media code, data and media associated with this article alphaxiv toggle alphaxiv ( what is alphaxiv? ) links to code toggle catalyzex code finder for papers ( what is catalyzex? ) dagshub toggle dagshub ( what is dagshub? ) gotitpub toggle gotit.pub ( what is gotitpub? ) huggingface toggle hugging face ( what is huggingface? ) links to code toggle papers with code ( what is papers with code? ) sciencecast toggle sciencecast ( what is sciencecast? ) demos demos replicate toggle replicate ( what is replicate? ) spaces toggle hugging face spaces ( what is spaces? ) spaces toggle txyz.ai ( what is txyz.ai? ) related papers recommenders and search tools link to influence flower influence flower ( what are influence flowers? ) core recommender toggle core recommender ( what is core? ) author venue institution topic about arxivlabs arxivlabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arxivlabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arxiv features directly on our website. both individuals and organizations that work with arxivlabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arxiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. have an idea for a project that will add value for arxiv's community? learn more about arxivlabs . which authors of this paper are endorsers? | disable mathjax ( what is mathjax? ) about help contact arxiv click here to contact arxiv contact subscribe to arxiv mailings click here to subscribe subscribe copyright privacy policy web accessibility assistance arxiv operational status get status notifications via email or slack [2401.00009] turing's test, a beautiful thought experiment skip to main content we gratefully acknowledge support from the simons foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. donate > cs > arxiv:2401.00009 help | advanced search all fields title author abstract comments journal reference acm classification msc classification report number arxiv identifier doi orcid arxiv author id help pages full text search open search go open navigation menu quick links login help pages about computer science > artificial intelligence arxiv:2401.00009 (cs) [submitted on 18 dec 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 22 jul 2024 (this version, v3)] title: turing's test, a beautiful thought experiment authors: bernardo gonçalves view a pdf of the paper titled turing's test, a beautiful thought experiment, by bernardo gon\c{c}alves view pdf html (experimental) abstract: in the wake of the latest trends of artificial intelligence (ai), there has been a resurgence of claims and questions about the turing test and its value, which are reminiscent of decades of practical "turing" tests. if ai were quantum physics, by now several "schrödinger's" cats would have been killed. it is time for a historical reconstruction of turing's beautiful thought experiment. this paper presents a wealth of evidence, including new archival sources, and gives original answers to several open questions about turing's 1950 paper, including its relation with early ai. comments: author's accepted manuscript to appear in ieee annals of the history of computing. "©2024 ieee. personal use of this material is permitted. permission from ieee must be obtained for all other uses, in any current or future media ..." subjects: artificial intelligence (cs.ai) ; computers and society (cs.cy) cite as: arxiv:2401.00009 [cs.ai] (or arxiv:2401.00009v3 [cs.ai] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2401.00009 focus to learn more arxiv-issued doi via datacite related doi : https://doi.org/10.1109/mahc.2024.3432278 focus to learn more doi(s) linking to related resources submission history from: bernardo gonçalves [ view email ] [v1] mon, 18 dec 2023 19:38:26 utc (1,931 kb) [v2] sun, 7 jan 2024 10:08:33 utc (1,865 kb) [v3] mon, 22 jul 2024 17:29:32 utc (985 kb) full-text links: access paper: view a pdf of the paper titled turing's test, a beautiful thought experiment, by bernardo gon\c{c}alves view pdf html (experimental) tex source view license current browse context: cs.ai < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-01 change to browse by: cs cs.cy references & citations nasa ads google scholar semantic scholar export bibtex citation loading... bibtex formatted citation × loading... data provided by: bookmark bibliographic tools bibliographic and citation tools bibliographic explorer toggle bibliographic explorer ( what is the explorer? ) connected papers toggle connected papers ( what is connected papers? ) litmaps toggle litmaps ( what is litmaps? ) scite.ai toggle scite smart citations ( what are smart citations? ) code, data, media code, data and media associated with this article alphaxiv toggle alphaxiv ( what is alphaxiv? ) links to code toggle catalyzex code finder for papers ( what is catalyzex? ) dagshub toggle dagshub ( what is dagshub? ) gotitpub toggle gotit.pub ( what is gotitpub? ) huggingface toggle hugging face ( what is huggingface? ) links to code toggle papers with code ( what is papers with code? ) sciencecast toggle sciencecast ( what is sciencecast? ) demos demos replicate toggle replicate ( what is replicate? ) spaces toggle hugging face spaces ( what is spaces? ) spaces toggle txyz.ai ( what is txyz.ai? ) related papers recommenders and search tools link to influence flower influence flower ( what are influence flowers? ) core recommender toggle core recommender ( what is core? ) author venue institution topic about arxivlabs arxivlabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arxivlabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arxiv features directly on our website. both individuals and organizations that work with arxivlabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arxiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. have an idea for a project that will add value for arxiv's community? learn more about arxivlabs . which authors of this paper are endorsers? | disable mathjax ( what is mathjax? ) about help contact arxiv click here to contact arxiv contact subscribe to arxiv mailings click here to subscribe subscribe copyright privacy policy web