usage examples → consented activities of people activity detection activity recognition computer vision labeled machine learning privacy video the consented activities of people (cap) dataset is a fine grained activity dataset for visual ai research curated using the visym collector platform. details → usage examples openfad - open fine grained activity detection challenge by visym labs & nist visym collector by visym labs & systems & technology research see 2 usage examples → copernicus digital elevation model (dem) agriculture cog disaster response earth observation elevation geospatial satellite imagery the copernicus dem is a digital surface model (dsm) which represents the surface of the earth including buildings, infrastructure and vegetation. we provide two instances of copernicus dem named glo-30 public and glo-90. glo-90 provides worldwide coverage at 90 meters. glo-30 public provides limited worldwide coverage at 30 meters because a small subset of tiles covering specific countries are not yet released to the public by the copernicus programme. note that in both cases ocean areas do not have tiles, there one can assume height values equal to zero. data is provided as cloud optimized ge... details → usage examples sentinel hub wms/wmts/wcs service and process api by sinergise eo browser by sinergise see 2 usage examples → coversbr copyright monitoring cover song identification live song identification music music features dataset music information retrieval music recognition coversbr is the first large audio database with, predominantly, brazilian music for the tasks of covers song identification (csi) and live song identifications (lsi). due to copyright restrictions audios of the songs cannot be made available, however metadata and files of features have public access. audio streamings captured from radio and tv channels for the live song identification task will be made public. coversbr is composed of metadata and features extracted from 102298 songs, distributed in 26366 groups of covers/versions, with an average of 3.88 versions per group. the entire collecti... details → usage examples getting started with cover song identification and genre classification by gabriel bella martini using the (coversbr) dataset by dirceu silva, atila xavier, edgard moraes, marco grivet and fernando perdigã£o see 2 usage examples → covid job impacts - us hiring data since march 1 2020 covid-19 economics financial markets hiring market data this dataset provides daily updates on the volume of us job listings filtered by geography industry job family and role; normalized to pre-covid levels.these data files feed the business intelligence visuals at covidjobimpacts.greenwich.hr, a public-facing site hosted by greenwich.hr and onemodel inc. data is derived from online job listings tracked continuously, calculated daily and published nightly. on average data from 70% of all new us jobs are captured, and the dataset currently contains data from 3.3 million hiring organizations.data for each filter segment is represented as the 7-day ... details → usage examples documentation of dataset schemas by greenwich.hr covidjobimpats.greenwich.hr - online visualization of daily hiring data and weekly unemployment data including links to recorded discussions using the data by greenwich.hr and onemodel inc. see 2 usage examples → cryoet data portal cell biology cryo electron tomography czi electron tomography life sciences machine learning segmentation structural biology cryo-electron tomography (cryoet) is a powerful technique for visualizing 3d structures of cellular macromolecules at near atomic resolution in their native environment. observing the inner workings of cells in context enables better understanding about the function of healthy cells and the changes associated with disease. however, the analysis of cryoet data remains a significant bottleneck, particularly the annotation of macromolecules within a set of tomograms, which often requires a laborious and time-consuming process of manual labelling that can take months to complete. given the current... details → usage examples predicting sample boundaries by czi downloading data via the aws cli by czi cryo-et reveals the in situ architecture of the polar tube invasion apparatus from microsporidian parasites by mahrukh usmani, et al. examples of working with the portal api by czi python api for cryoet data portal by czi see 5 usage examples → dnastack covid19 sra data bam bioinformatics coronavirus covid-19 fasta fastq genetic genomic global health life sciences long read sequencing sars-cov-2 vcf virus whole genome sequencing the sequence read archive (sra) is the primary archive of high-throughput sequencing data, hosted by the national institutes of health (nih). the sra represents the largest publicly available repository of sars-cov-2 sequencing data. this dataset was created by dnastack using sars-cov-2 sequencing data sourced from the sra. where possible, raw sequence data were processed by dnastack through a unified bioinformatics pipeline to produce genome assemblies and variant calls. the use of a standardized workflow to produce this harmonized dataset allows public data generated using different methodol... details → usage examples viral lineage assignment by heather ward viral ai by dnastack see 2 usage examples → danish meteorological institute (dmi) reanalysis dataset v0.5 air temperature atmosphere geospatial global land meteorological model near-surface air temperature near-surface relative humidity near-surface specific humidity water weather zarr danra is a high-resolution meteorological reanalysis dataset for denmark and northwestern europe covering the period september 1990 to december 2023 details → usage examples danra figures by danish meteorological institute looking at distributions by danish meteorological institute see 2 usage examples → dendritic consortium multimodal dataset brain images brain models electron microscopy electrophysiology imaging life sciences mus musculus neurobiology neuroimaging neurophysiology neuroscience simulation neuroscience single neuron models the dendritic consortium provides a multimodal dataset integrating calcium and voltage imaging, electrophysiology, electron microscopy, proteomics, and computational models of baz1a pyramidal neurons in the mouse primary visual cortex (v1). details → usage examples dendritic consortium database by dendritic consortium download and visualize data from the dendritic consortium dataset by dendritic consortium see 2 usage examples → digitalcorpora computer forensics computer security csi cyber security digital forensics image processing imaging information retrieval internet intrusion detection machine learning machine translation text analysis disk images, memory dumps, network packet captures, and files for use in digital forensics research and education. all of this information is accessible through the digitalcorpora.org website, and made available at s3://digitalcorpora/. some