learning promotes interbrain information alignment the host range of generalist and specialist phages in capsule-diverse klebsiella hosts is driven by the evolvability of receptor-binding proteins see all articles current issue october 2025 11/20/2025 research article bitopic nanobodies for logic-gated gpcr signaling bitopic ligands are comprised of a pharmacophore and a linked moiety that bind to separate sites. shivani sachdev, swarnali roy and ross cheloha show that g-protein coupled receptors (gpcrs) that bind small molecules can be potently activated by bitopic nanobody-ligand conjugates that can be applied to selectively target pairs of gpcrs to induce distinct signaling responses. don't miss the accompanying primer by xianglin huang and bryan roth. image credit: pbio.3003424 11/19/2025 research article er stress response to hydroxyurea the er lumen provides the proper redox environment for disulfide bond formation, which is essential for the correct folding of proteins, but the responses activated by incorrect folding remain unclear. ana sánchez-molina, silvia salas-pino, rafael daga and co-authors show that the cancer drug hydroxyurea disrupts redox-dependent protein folding in the er, triggering a stress response that leads to perinuclear er expansion and cytoplasmic protein aggregation. image credit: pbio.3003493 11/18/2025 research article the blood–brain barrier and brain tumor growth tumors adapt their metabolism to nutrient availability to sustain increased proliferation, however how the tumor microenvironment modulates sensitivity to nutrient restriction is unknown. qian dong, louise cheng and colleagues reveal that this process is regulated by the scl36 amino acid transporter pathetic at the blood-brain barrier perineural glial cells in drosophila brain tumors. image credit: pbio.3003496 11/18/2025 research article eye blinks sync to the musical beat human movements are known to synchronize with rhythmic patterns in music. yiyang wu, xiangbin teng and yi du expand our understanding of embodied music perception, by revealing that spontaneous eye blinks also align with musical beats and linking this to brain activity, white matter structure, and dynamic attention. image credit: yuxi gao 11/17/2025 methods and resources cell2spatial for reconstructing tissue architecture current computational approaches to deconvolute spatial transcriptomic data and estimate cellular composition are limited by their resolution. huamei li and co-authors develop a computational framework called cell2spatial which maps single-cell rna sequencing data to spatial transcriptomics spots, facilitating the precise reconstruction of tissue architecture. image credit: bio.3003477 11/19/2025 essay bacterial immunity and microbiome structure bacterial immune systems have evolved in response to diverse molecular "parasites." this essay explores how interactions between mobile genetic elements and bacterial defenses shape microbiome structure and function. image credit: pbio.3003489 11/14/2025 editorial the body sends a signal: perspectives on interoception research into brain–body communication is being reinvigorated as the field unites under the umbrella of ‘interoception’. this editorial highlights four perspectives that show the breadth of this emerging field. image credit: pixabay user h.b. 11/13/2025 perspective rethinking food reward and obesity is overeating driven by hedonism? this perspective argues that the pleasure of eating food is not a driver of the obesity epidemic, but rather the regular consumption of an unhealthy diet blunts sensitivity to interoceptive signals that drive food reward. image credit: pixabay user planet fox 11/13/2025 perspective interoception in whole person health decoding the body’s internal signals could revolutionize whole person health. this perspective suggests a research framework linking brain, body and behavior to foster resilience, self-regulation and holistic well-being. image credit: pbio.3003487 collections cancer crosstalk across spatial and temporal scales recent technological advancements in omics have unveiled the mechanisms governing tumor progression across spatial and temporal scales. this collection reveals the complexities of the crosstalk between cancer cells and the tumor microenvironment. the promises and challenges of neurotechnology neurotechnology offers unprecedented opportunities to treat neural disorders, restore brain function and enhance cognitive abilities. this collection explores the present and possible futures of neurotechnology to improve human health and cognition. decision making for conservation and biodiversity translating conservation and biodiversity research from the field into the real world is a complex problem. this collection discusses issues around economics, policy, and how to do research that answers questions that decision makers have. symbiosis across the tree of life symbiosis research has become a holistic and pervasive field with a mature theoretical basis. this collection showcases symbiotic relationships across the tree of life, exploring their evolutionary basis and underlying mechanisms. plos biology 20th anniversary plos biology is 20 and we are celebrating with a collection that contains articles that look back at landmark studies that we published, others that look past and future, and others discussing how publishing and open science have evolved and what is to come. . of meet our staff at conferences embo: plant evolution, from origins to diversification on land november 25 - 27 meet senior editor roland roberts (rroberts@plos.org) molecular microbial ecology group meeting 2025 december 15 - 16 meet editor in chief nonia pariente (npariente@plos.org) keystone: immunometabolism across scales january 11 - 14 meet senior editor luke smith (lsmith@plos.org) wellcome: synthetic biology for health and sustainability march 11 - 13 meet magazine section senior editor joanna clarke (jclarke@plos.org). of publish with plos submit your manuscript connect with us contact us rss plos biology on bluesky plos on facebook plos blogs get new content from plos biology in your inbox plos will use your email address to provide content from plos biology . you can find out more about how plos processes your data by reading our privacy policy . you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the unsubscribe link in our emails or by contacting us at privacy@plos.org. plos biology | issn: 1545-7885 (online) publications plos aging and health plos biology plos climate plos complex systems plos computational biology plos digital health plos ecosystems plos genetics plos global public health plos medicine plos mental health plos neglected tropical diseases plos one plos pathogens plos sustainability and transformation plos water home blogs collections give feedback lockss privacy policy terms of use advertise media inquiries contact plos is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation, #c2354500, based in california, us plos computational biology skip to main content advertisement plos computational biology browse current issue journal archive collections find and