read articles publish submissions getting started submission guidelines figures tables supporting information latex other article types preprints revising your manuscript submit now policies best practices in research reporting human subjects research animal research competing interests disclosure of funding sources licenses and copyright data availability code availability complementary research materials, software and code sharing ethical publishing practice authorship corrections, expressions of concern, and retractions manuscript review and publication editorial and peer review process guidelines for reviewers guidelines for editors accepted manuscripts comments about journal information editors-in-chief editorial board publishing information publication fees press and media contact search search advanced search october 9, 2025 superspreading and the evolution of virulence image credit: plos interested in joining the board? plos computational biology is looking for new colleagues to join our exceptional team of editors. apply 11/11/2025 research article automated c. elegans behavior analysis via deep learning-based detection and tracking as a well-established and extensively utilized model organism, c. elegans serves as a crucial platform for investigating behavioral regulation mechanisms and their biological significance. however, manually tracking the locomotor behavior of large numbers of c. elegans is both cumbersome and inefficient. the authors propose an automated approach for analyzing c. elegans behavior through deep learning-based tracking. image credit: wikimedia recently published articles candidate correlates of protection in the hvtn505 hiv-1 vaccine efficacy trial identified by positive-unlabeled learning linking multiple serological assays to infer dengue virus infections from paired samples using mixture models multiscale modelling shows how cell-ecm interactions impact ecm fibre alignment and cell detachment see all articles current issue october 2025 11/11/2025 research article differential effect of supercoiling on bacterial transcription in topological domains the authors are interested in understanding how bacteria regulate the expression of their genes independent of protein-based transcription factors. one mechanism is through dna mechanics caused by the over- and under-winding of the dna, termed dna supercoiling. image credit: taylor leopold 11/07/2025 research article quantifying microbial interactions based on compositional data using an iterative approach for solving generalized lotka-volterra equations understanding microbial interactions is fundamental for exploring population dynamics, particularly in microbial communities where interactions affect stability and host health. generalized lotka-volterra (glv) models have been widely used to investigate system dynamics but depend on absolute abundance data. image credit: cdc 11/03/2025 research article mirscore: a rapid and precise microrna validation tool genome-wide scans using small rna-seq data often yield high rates of false-positive mirna annotations, highlighting the need for more robust validation methods. mirscore was developed as an independent and efficient tool for evaluating new mirna annotations using srna-seq data. image credit: pawel czerwinski 11/07/2025 research article data-driven identification of biological systems using multi-scale analysis biological systems often evolve across multiple time scales, posing major challenges for constructing accurate models directly from data. traditional model reduction techniques require explicit equations and thus cannot be applied when only observational data are available. image credit: nathan andersen 09/11/2025 research article a curriculum learning approach to training antibody language models there is growing interest in pre-training antibody language models (ablms) with a mixture of unpaired and natively paired sequences, seeking to combine the proven benefits of training with natively paired sequences with the massive scale of unpaired antibody sequence datasets. image credit: pavel czerwinski 09/08/2025 research article blood flow in the human cerebral cortex: large-scale pial vascularization and 1d simulation understanding cerebral circulation is crucial for early diagnosis and patient-oriented therapies for brain conditions. however, blood flow simulations at the organ scale have been limited. image credit: zilves et al 09/03/2025 research article optimal algorithms for controlling infectious diseases in real time using noisy infection data the authors tackle the challenge of determining the best time to enforce or relax non-pharmaceutical interventions (npis), such as mandatory mask wearing, social distancing or quarantine. image credit: markus winkler 08/26/2025 research article mixotrophy for carbon-conserving waste upcycling electrochemical and biological processes offer promise for upgrading waste streams, including recalcitrant carbon dioxide and plastic-derived wastes. image credit: weldon and euler 08/11/2025 research article cryo-em ligand building using alphafold3-like model and molecular dynamics the authors present an approach that integrates ai with cryo-em density-guided simulations to fit ligands into experimental maps. image credit: haloi, howard, lindahl collections topic pages this collection aims to increase the coverage of computational biology-related topics in wikipedia by rewarding authors with a citable, pubmed-indexed static version of the living document on wikipedia. developing computational biology this series of perspective articles from computational biologists in a variety of countries, offers their personal viewpoint on the history, current status, and future of computational biology in their region. education this collection aims to provide practical tutorials and background information on important computational methods used to investigate key biological questions, as well as resources for training scientists at all stages of their careers. benchmarking the benchmarking collection help readers decide between a number of methods which are developed to solve scientific problems. of other plos content plos biology knowledge-guided analysis of "omics" data using the knoweng cloud platform plos neglected tropical diseases test accuracy of polymerase chain reaction methods against conventional diagnostic techniques for cutaneous leishmaniasis (cl) in patients with clinical or epidemiological suspicion of cl: systematic review and meta-analysis plos pathogens murine and related chapparvoviruses are nephro-tropic and produce novel accessory proteins in infected kidneys plos medicine prevalence and genetic profiles of isoniazid resistance in tuberculosis patients: a multicountry analysis of cross-sectional data of publish with plos submission instructions submit your manuscript connect with us contact us rss plos computational biology on bluesky plos on facebook plos blogs get new content from plos computational biology in your inbox plos will use your email address to provide content from plos computational biology . you can find out more about how plos processes your data by reading our privacy policy . you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the unsubscribe link in our emails or by contacting us at privacy@plos.org. plos computational biology | issn: 1553-7358 (online) publications plos aging and health plos biology plos climate plos complex systems plos computational biology plos digital health