demographic and housing characteristics file . the algorithm used to compute this estimate is described in more detail in least squares estimation for hierarchical data . a... details → a realistic cyber defense dataset (cse-cic-ids2018) cyber security internet intrusion detection network traffic this dataset is the result of a collaborative project between the communications security establishment (cse) and the canadian institute for cybersecurity (cic) that use the notion of profiles to generate cybersecurity dataset in a systematic manner. it incluides a detailed description of intrusions along with abstract distribution models for applications, protocols, or lower level network entities. the dataset includes seven different attack scenarios, namely brute-force, heartbleed, botnet, dos, ddos, web attacks, and infiltration of the network from inside. the attacking infrastructure incl... details → ai2 tabmcq: multiple choice questions aligned with the aristo tablestore machine learning natural language processing 9092 crowd-sourced science questions and 68 tables of curated facts details → ai2 tablestore (november 2015 snapshot) machine learning natural language processing 68 tables of curated facts details → aristo mini corpus csv json machine learning 1,197,377 science-relevant sentences details → aristo tuple kb machine learning natural language processing 294,000 science-relevant tuples details → australasian genomes biodiversity biology conservation genetic genomic life sciences transcriptomics wildlife australasian genomes is the genomic data repository for the threatened species initiative (tsi) and the arc centre for innovations in peptide and protein science (cipps). this repository contains reference genomes, transcriptomes, resequenced genomes and reduced representation sequencing data from australasian species. australasian genomes is managed by the australasian wildlife genomics group (awgg) at the university of sydney on behalf of our collaborators within tsi and cipps. details → baby open brains (bobs) repository on aws life sciences magnetic resonance imaging neuroimaging neuroscience nifti pediatric segmentation manually curated and reviewed infant brain segmentations and accompanying t1w and t2w images for a range of 1-9 month old participants from the baby connectome project (bcp) details → usage examples bibsnet: a deep learning baby image brain segmentation network for mri scans by timothy j. hendrickson et al. bibsnet by timothy j. hendrickson et al. view or download the bobs repository by lucille a. moore see 3 usage examples → biolip bioinformatics chemistry life sciences molecular docking molecule protein structural biology biolip is a semi-manually curated database for high-quality, biologically relevant ligand-protein binding interactions. the structure data are collected primarily from the protein data bank (pdb), with biological insights mined from literature and other specific databases. biolip aims to construct the most comprehensive and accurate database for serving the needs of ligand-protein docking, virtual ligand screening and protein function annotation. details → usage examples biolip: a semi-manually curated database for biologically relevant ligand-protein interactions by jianyi yang, ambrish roy, and yang zhang biolip api usage by zhang lab biolip2: an updated structure database for biologically relevant ligand-protein interactions by chengxin zhang, xi zhang, peter l freddolino, and yang zhang see 3 usage examples → cafe60 reanalysis climate sustainability the csiro climate retrospective analysis and forecast ensemble system: version 1 (cafe60v1) provides a large ensemble retrospective analysis of the global climate system from 1960 to present with sufficiently many realizations and at spatio-temporal resolutions suitable to enable probabilistic climate studies. using a variant of the ensemble kalman filter, 96 climate state estimates are generated over the most recent six decades. these state estimates are constrained by monthly mean ocean, atmosphere and sea ice observations such that their trajectories track the observed state while enabling ... details → ccafs-climate data agriculture climate food security sustainability high resolution climate data to help assess the impacts of climate change primarily on agriculture. these open access datasets of climate projections will help researchers make climate change impact assessments. details → coco - common objects in context - fast.ai datasets computer vision deep learning machine learning coco is a large-scale object detection, segmentation, and captioning dataset. this is part of the fast.ai datasets collection hosted by aws for convenience of fast.ai students. if you use this dataset in your research please cite arxiv:1405.0312 [cs.cv]. details → covid-19 molecular structure and therapeutics hub bioinformatics biology coronavirus covid-19 life sciences molecular docking pharmaceutical aggregating critical information to accelerate drug discovery for the molecular modeling and simulation community. a community-driven data repository and curation service for molecular structures, models, therapeutics, and simulations related to computational research related to therapeutic opportunities for covid-19 (caused by the sars-cov-2 coronavirus). details → crc-sas/sissa historical seasonal and subseasonal forecast database agriculture earth observation forecast hydrology meteorological natural resource weather en el marco del sistema de informaciã³n de sequã­as del sur de sudamã©rica (sissa) se ha desarrollado una base de predicciones en escala subestacional y estacional con datos corregidos y sin corregir, con el propã³sito que permita estudiar predictibilidad en distintas escalas y tambiã©n que sirva para alimentar modelos de sectores como agricultura e hidrologã­a. la base contiene datos en escala diaria entre 2000-2019 (sin corregir) y 2010-2019 (corregidos) para diversas variables incluyendo: temperatura media, mã¡xima y mã­nima, asã­ como tambiã©n lluvia, viento medio y otras variables pensadas para alimentar modelos hidrolã³gicos y de cultivo. la base de datos abarca toda el ã¡rea del centro regional del clima para el sur de sudamã©rica (crc-sas), abarcando desde bolivia y centro-sur de brasil hasta la patagonia incluyendo los paã­ses miembros como chile, argentina, brasil, paraguay, uruguay y bolivia. la base fue generada a partir de datos de gefsv12 para escala subestacional ( gefs ) y cfs2 para escala estacional ( cfs2 ). para la generaciã³n de los datos corregidos se utilizaron los datos del reanã¡lisis de era5 ( era5 ). within the framework of the southern south american drought information system (sissa), a base of sub-seasonal and seasonal scale predictions has been developed with corrected and uncorrected data, with the purpose of studying predictability at different scales and also to be used to feed models for sectors such as agriculture and hydrology. the database contains daily scale data between 2000-2019 (uncorrected) and 2010-2019 (corrected) for several variables including: mean, maximum and minimum temperature, as