learning commons for global development by hamed alemohammad a guide for collecting and sharing ground reference data for machine learning applications by yonah bromberg gaber explore wind speed images from amazon sustainability data initiative (asdi) hosted on s3 using sagemaker studio lab (smsl) by frank rubino radiant mlhub dataset registry by radiant earth see 8 usage examples → reference elevation model of antarctica (rema) cog earth observation elevation geospatial mapping open source software satellite imagery stac the reference elevation model of antarctica - 2m gsd digital elevation models (dems) and mosaics from 2009 to the present. the rema project seeks to fill the need for high-resolution time-series elevation data in the antarctic. the time-dependent nature of the strip dem files allows users to perform change detection analysis and to compare observations of topography data acquired in different seasons or years. the mosaic dem tiles are assembled from multiple strip dems with the intention of providing a more consistent and comprehensive product over large areas. rema data is constructed from in... details → usage examples pgc dynamic stac api tutorial by polar geospatial center opentopography access to rema by opentopography the reference elevation model of antarctica by ian m. howat, claire porter, benjanim e. smith, myoung-jong noh, paul morin deep glacial troughs and stabilizing ridges unveiled beneath the margins of the antarctic ice sheet by morlighem, m., rignot, e., binder, t. et al. the surface extraction from tin based search-space minimization (setsm) algorithm by myoung-jong noh, ian m. howat see 8 usage examples → toxicant exposures and responses by genomic and epigenomic regulators of transcription (target) bioinformatics biology environmental epigenomics genetic genomic life sciences the target (toxicant exposures and responses by genomic and epigenomic regulators of transcription) program is a research consortium funded by the national institute of environmental health sciences (niehs). the goal of the collaboration is to address the role of environmental exposures in disease pathogenesis as a function of epigenome perturbation, including understanding the environmental control of epigenetic mechanisms and assessing the utility of surrogate tissue analysis in mouse models of disease-relevant environmental exposures. details → usage examples metabolic effects of air pollution exposure and reversibility by rajagopalan s, park b, palanivel r, et al. finding and downloading target ii data files by target-dcc comparison of differential accessibility analysis strategies for atac-seq data by gontarz p, fu s, xing x, liu s, miao b et.al. visualize target ii data with washu epigenome browser by washu epigenome browser epigenetic biomarkers and preterm birth by park b, khanam r, vinayachandran v, et.al. see 8 usage examples → u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) center for computational toxicology and exposure high throughput transcriptomics data bioinformatics fastq gene expression transcriptomics high-throughput transcriptomics (httr) data generated by us epa office of research and development, center for computational toxicology and exposure (ccte), biomolecular and computational toxicology division. all data is generated using tempo-seq targeted rna-seq technology from in vitro cell culture systems. details → usage examples high-throughput transcriptomics screen of toxcast chemicals in u-2 os cells by bundy j., everett l., rogers j., nyffeler j., byrd g., culbreth m., et al exploring the effects of experimental parameters and data modeling approaches on in vitro transcriptomic point-of-departure estimates by harrill j., everett l., haggard d., bundy j., willis c., shah i., et al httr pipeline by logan everett high-throughput transcriptomics platform for screening environmental chemicals by harrill j., everett l., haggard d., sheffield t., bundy j., willis c., et al high-throughput transcriptomics of water extracts detects reductions in biological activity with water treatment processes by rogers j., leusch f., chambers b., daniels k., everett l., judson r., et al see 8 usage examples → aster l1t cloud-optimized geotiffs cog earth observation geospatial mining natural resource satellite imagery sustainability the advanced spaceborne thermal emission and reflection radiometer (aster) level 1 precision terrain corrected registered at-sensor radiance (ast_l1t) data contains calibrated at-sensor radiance, which corresponds with the aster level 1b (ast_l1b), that has been geometrically corrected, and rotated to a north-up utm projection. the ast_l1t is created from a single resampling of the corresponding aster l1a (ast_l1a) product.the precision terrain correction process incorporates gls2000 digital elevation data with derived ground control points (gcps) to achieve topographic accuracy for all daytim... details → usage examples earthdaily earthone platform by earthdaily working with aster l1t visible and near infrared (vnir) data in r by cole krehbiel latitude-longitude to path-row conversion by usgs aster l1t algorithm theoretical basis by david meyer, dawn siemonsma, barbara brooks, and lowell johnson aster l1t product user guide by usgs eros data center see 7 usage examples → civic (clinical interpretation of variants in cancer) cancer genetic genomic life sciences vcf precision medicine refers to the use of prevention and treatment strategies that are tailored to the unique features of each individual and their disease. in the context of cancer this might involve the identification of specific mutations shown to predict response to a targeted therapy. the biomedical literature describing these associations is large and growing rapidly. currently these interpretations exist largely in private or encumbered databases resulting in extensive repetition of effort. realizing precision medicine will require this information to be centralized, debated and interpret... details → usage examples introduction to clinical interpretation of somatic cancer variants by the griffith lab a community approach to the cancer-variant-interpretation bottleneck by kilannin krysiak et al. civic is a community knowledgebase for expert crowdsourcing the clinical interpretation of variants in cancer by malachi griffith et al. standard operating procedure for curation and clinical interpretation of variants in cancer by arpad m danos et al. civicdb 2022: evolution of an open-access cancer variant interpretation knowledgebase by kilannin krysiak et al. see 7 usage examples → clinical proteomic tumor analysis consortium 2 (cptac-2) cancer genomic life sciences strides transcriptomics the clinical proteomic tumor analysis consortium (cptac) is a national effort to accelerate the understanding of the molecular basis of cancer through the application of large-scale proteome and genome analysis, or proteogenomics. cptac-2 is the phase ii of the cptac initiative