retrieved from the glider fleet will contribute to the study of the major boundary current s... details → usage examples accessing and search for any aodn dataset by laurent besnard accessing ocean gliders - delayed mode glider deployments by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → ocean radar - bonney coast site - sea water velocity - delayed mode ocean currents ocean velocity oceans the bonney coast (bonc) hf ocean radar system covers an area of the bonney coast, south australia, which has a recurring annual upwelling feature near to the coast that significantly changes the ecosystem from one of warm water originating in western australia, to one dominated by cold upwelling water from off the continental shelf. the dynamics of this area and the relationship between ocean circulation, chemistry and sediments control the larval species and the higher marine species and ecosystems in which they forage. the data from this site provide linking observations between the southe... details → usage examples accessing and search for any aodn dataset by laurent besnard accessing imos - acorn - bonney coast hf ocean radar site (south australia, australia) - delayed mode sea water velocity by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → ocean radar - capricorn bunker group site - sea water velocity - delayed mode ocean currents ocean velocity oceans the capricorn bunker group site is in the southern region of the great barrier reef marine park world heritage area (gbr). the hf ocean radar coverage is from the coast to beyond the edge of the continental shelf. this is an area where the east australian current (eac) meanders as it moves south from the swain reefs and loses touch with the western land boundary. the area is dynamic with warm eac water recirculating and being wind-driven northwards along the coast inside the gbr lagoon. the recirculating warm water contrasts with the upwelling tendency of the parts of the eac which contin... details → usage examples accessing and search for any aodn dataset by laurent besnard accessing imos - acorn - capricorn bunker group hf ocean radar site (great barrier reef, queensland, australia) - delayed mode sea water velocity by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → ocean radar - capricorn bunker group site - wave - delayed mode ocean currents oceans the capricorn bunker group site is in the southern region of the great barrier reef marine park world heritage area (gbr). the hf ocean radar coverage is from the coast to beyond the edge of the continental shelf. this is an area where the east australian current (eac) meanders as it moves south from the swain reefs and loses touch with the western land boundary. the area is dynamic with warm eac water recirculating and being wind-driven northwards along the coast inside the gbr lagoon. the recirculating warm water contrasts with the upwelling tendency of the parts of the eac which contin... details → usage examples accessing imos - acorn - capricorn bunker group hf ocean radar site (great barrier reef, queensland, australia) - delayed mode wave by laurent besnard accessing and search for any aodn dataset by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → ocean radar - capricorn bunker group site - wind - delayed mode meteorological ocean currents oceans the capricorn bunker group site is in the southern region of the great barrier reef marine park world heritage area (gbr). the hf ocean radar coverage is from the coast to beyond the edge of the continental shelf. this is an area where the east australian current (eac) meanders as it moves south from the swain reefs and loses touch with the western land boundary. the area is dynamic with warm eac water recirculating and being wind-driven northwards along the coast inside the gbr lagoon. the recirculating warm water contrasts with the upwelling tendency of the parts of the eac which contin... details → usage examples accessing imos - acorn - capricorn bunker group hf ocean radar site (great barrier reef, queensland, australia) - delayed mode wind by laurent besnard accessing and search for any aodn dataset by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → ocean radar - coffs harbour site - sea water velocity - delayed mode ocean currents ocean velocity oceans the coffs harbour (cof) hf ocean radar site is located near the point at which the east australian current (eac) begins to separate from the coast. here the eac is at its narrowest and swiftest: to the north it is forming from the westwards subtropical jet, and to the south it forms eddies and eventually the warm water moves eastwards across the tasman sea, forming a front with the cold water of the southern ocean. the connection between coastal and continental shelf waters is fundamental to the understanding of the anthropogenic impact on the coastal ocean and the role of the ocean in mitig... details → usage examples accessing and search for any aodn dataset by laurent besnard accessing imos - acorn - coffs harbour hf ocean radar site (new south wales, australia) - delayed mode sea water velocity by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → ocean radar - coffs harbour site - wave - delayed mode ocean currents oceans the coffs harbour (cof) hf ocean radar site is located near the point at which the east australian current (eac) begins to separate from the coast. here the eac is at its narrowest and swiftest: to the north it is forming from the westwards subtropical jet, and to the south it forms eddies and eventually the warm water moves eastwards across the tasman sea, forming a front with the cold water of the southern ocean. the connection between coastal and continental shelf waters is fundamental to the understanding of the anthropogenic impact on the coastal ocean and the role of the ocean in mitig... details → usage examples accessing imos - acorn - coffs harbour hf ocean radar site (new south wales, australia) - delayed mode wave by laurent besnard accessing and search for