health. image credit: lab puppy 'nala' by jerry frausto, cc by 2.0 09/22/2025 publishing detecting llm-generated peer reviews rao and colleagues address the challenge of detecting large-language-model (llm) generated peer reviews by injecting multiple prompts into the paper's pdf, which they then search for references in the generated review, with high statistical success. this offers a potential solution to the one of the many issues posed by artificial intelligence impacting the publishing process. image credit: artificial intelligence by gerd altmann , pixabay 09/18/2025 sociology the role of educational attainment and quality in u.s. regional variation in prevalence of dementia and cind ailshire and colleagues find that state-level education quality fully accounts for the higher prevalence of dementia in the us south. this suggests education explains regional disparities in dementia and cognitive impairment, and educational environment matters more than educational attainment. image credit: old hands by sabine van erp, pixabay 09/28/2025 everyone a call to action on world rabies day and beyond in this interview, on world rabies day, plos one academic editor dr. zinia t. nujum shares her perspectives on this year’s theme, “act now: you, me, community”. image credit: pet owner by rebecca scholz , pixabay 09/16/2025 everyone editor spotlight: pankaj bhardwaj in this interview, plos one academic editor dr bhardwaj shares how the natural world inspires his research, how it translates into benefits for communities and landscapes, and provides advice for early-career researchers. image credit: dr pankaj bhardwaj by dr pankaj bhardwaj cc by 4.0 07/24/2025 the official plos blog how does our understanding of historic peatlands inform our approach to restoration practices? plos issued this press release talking about swindles and colleagues' study which identified the optimal conditions for peat formation and sustained growth using lessons from the past. image credit: peatland by richard fewster, cc by 4.0 09/26/2025 marine ecology modeling the detection range of pulsed calls from resident killer whale in nearshore waters of british columbia, canada mouy and colleagues quantified killer whale acoustic detection ranges. image credit: orca by efraimstochter, pixabay 09/24/2025 psychology voice clones sound realistic but not (yet) hyperrealistic lavan and colleagues find ai and human voices sound about equally real. image credit: smile by miranda granche, cc by 2.0 09/24/2025 contraception and hiv prevention views of female students in south africa and lessons for provision of hiv pre-exposure prophylaxis shamu and colleagues explore facilitators and barriers to contraception use. image credit: blister pack by cdd20, pixabay 09/24/2025 taxonomy a revision of the strumigenys mnemosyne group hamer and colleagues described three new species for strumigenys using micro-ct scanning. image credit: fig 2 by hamer et al., cc by 4.0 collections unveiling cancer crosstalk across spatial and temporal scales this collection highlights how omics advances have transformed our understanding of tumor progression and metastasis. gender and adaptation in the global south this collection explores the link between climate justice and gender justice, highlighting efforts toward gender-equitable, climate-resilient development in the global south. collections browse the lastest collections of papers from across plos. of meet our staff at conferences conferences 2025 new opportunities to meet our editorial staff will be announced soon. conferences 2025 new opportunities to meet our editorial staff will be announced soon. of publish with plos submission instructions submit your manuscript connect with us contact us rss plos one on bluesky plos on facebook plos blogs get new content from plos one in your inbox plos will use your email address to provide content from plos one . you can find out more about how plos processes your data by reading our privacy policy . you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the unsubscribe link in our emails or by contacting us at privacy@plos.org. plos one | issn: 1932-6203 (online) publications plos aging and health plos biology plos climate plos complex systems plos computational biology plos digital health plos ecosystems plos genetics plos global public health plos medicine plos mental health plos neglected tropical diseases plos one plos pathogens plos sustainability and transformation plos water home blogs collections give feedback lockss privacy policy terms of use advertise media inquiries contact plos is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation, #c2354500, based in california, us plos biology skip to main content advertisement plos biology browse current issue journal archive collections find and read articles publish submissions submission guidelines figures tables supporting information latex what we publish preprints revising your manuscript submit now policies best practices in research reporting human subjects research animal research competing interests disclosure of funding sources licenses and copyright data availability complementary research materials, software and code sharing ethical publishing practice authorship corrections, expressions of concern, and retractions manuscript review and publication editorial and peer review process guidelines for reviewers accepted manuscripts comments submit your manuscript plos biology provides an open access platform to showcase your best research and commentary across all areas of biological science. submit now about why publish with plos biology journal information staff editors editorial board publishing information publication fees press and media contact search search advanced search november 19, 2025 that sinking feeling... of starved phytoplankton marine phytoplankton need to regulate their vertical position in the ocean to access light and nutrients. this study of the effects of nutrient availability on gravitational sinking in nine species, by yanqi wu, teemu miettinen and colleagues, reveals that phytoplankton physiology has evolved multiple mechanisms that impact sinking in response to starvation. image credit: teemu miettinen, margaret bisher, abigail lytton-jean plos biologue community blog for plos biology, plos genetics and plos computational biology. plos biologue 11/20/2025 research article effects of sleep on brain fluid movement sleep supports brain health partly by regulating fluid dynamics relevant to waste clearance. in a combination of neuroimaging, sleep deprivation, and pharmacological studies, sara ulv larsen, sebastian holst, gitte moos knudsen and co-workers probe the relation between sleep and fluid movement in the human brain, revealing that sleep pressure and intensity have distinct effects on brain pulsations. image credit: pbio.3003500 recently published articles the details and entropy demons in a transmembrane allosteric machine collaborative rule