and several other advanced features are temporarily unavailable. skip to main page content an official website of the united states government here's how you know the .gov means it’s official. federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site. the site is secure. the https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. log in show account info close account logged in as: username dashboard publications account settings log out access keys ncbi homepage myncbi homepage main content main navigation home page search: search advanced clipboard pubmed® comprises more than 39 million citations for biomedical literature from medline, life science journals, and online books. citations may include links to full text content from pubmed central and publisher web sites. learn about pubmed faqs & user guide finding full text find advanced search clinical queries single citation matcher download e-utilities api ftp batch citation matcher explore mesh database journals trending articles pubmed records with recent increases in activity fuzuloparib with or without apatinib as maintenance therapy in newly diagnosed, advanced ovarian cancer (fzocus-1): a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 3 trial. wu l, et al. ca cancer j clin. 2026. pmid: 41287969 free pmc article. clinical trial. spatially resolved multi-omics of human metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease. li z, et al. nat genet. 2025. pmid: 41286103 an aeromonas variant that produces aerolysin promotes susceptibility to ulcerative colitis. jiang z, et al. science. 2025. pmid: 41264716 medical management and revascularization for asymptomatic carotid stenosis. brott tg, et al. n engl j med. 2025. pmid: 41269206 mapk-driven epithelial cell plasticity drives colorectal cancer therapeutic resistance. white m, et al. nature. 2025. pmid: 41286180 see more trending articles pubmed updates feature updates and other pubmed highlights recent changes to references, search tools, related citations, and sharing features june 27, 2025 key changes include improved rendering of reference lists, the addition of date stamps in search history downloads, streamlined sharing options, and other usability updates. ftp improvements available for testing june 6, 2025 starting with the annual baseline release in december 2025, the content of pubmed data distributed via ftp will be generated using the same technology as the pubmed website and e-utilities api; this update means the ftp data will match the pubmed website and api. changes to email feature may 30, 2025 pubmed will soon reintroduce the ability to customize subject lines and body text when emailing search results or citations. with this update, the email feature will also require my ncbi login, and pubmed emails will only be sent to the email address associated with the my ncbi account. phrase searching in pubmed tutorial now available march 3, 2025 with hands-on exercises and quizzes, this tutorial will walk you through how to construct pubmed phrase searches. ncbi literature resources mesh pmc bookshelf disclaimer the pubmed wordmark and pubmed logo are registered trademarks of the u.s. department of health and human services (hhs). unauthorized use of these marks is strictly prohibited. follow ncbi twitter facebook linkedin github connect with nlm twitter sm-facebook sm-youtube national library of medicine 8600 rockville pike bethesda, md 20894 web policies foia hhs vulnerability disclosure help accessibility careers nlm nih hhs usa.gov pmc home skip to main content an official website of the united states government here's how you know here's how you know official websites use .gov a .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the united states. secure .gov websites use https a lock ( lock locked padlock icon ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. search log in dashboard publications account settings log out search… search ncbi primary site navigation search logged in as: dashboard publications account settings log in pubmed central (pmc) home page search pmc full-text archive search in pmc journal list pubmed central ® (pmc) is a free full-text archive of biomedical and life sciences journal literature at the u.s. national institutes of health's national library of medicine (nih/nlm) about pmc discover a digital archive of scholarly articles, spanning centuries of scientific research. user guide learn how to find and read articles of interest to you. collections browse the pmc journal list or learn about some of pmc's unique collections. for authors navigate the pmc submission methods to comply with a funder mandate, expand access, and ensure preservation. for publishers learn about deposit options for journals and publishers and the pmc selection process. for developers find tools for bulk download, text mining, and other machine analysis. 11.5 million articles are archived in pmc. content provided in part by: 3013 full participation journals journals deposit the complete contents of each issue or volume. 257 nih portfolio journals journals deposit all nih-funded articles as defined by the nih public access policy. 45 selective deposit programs publisher deposits a subset of articles from a collection of journals. new in pmc sept. 9, 2025 updated full-text search now available as previously announced, ncbi has updated the pubmed central (pmc) full-text search functionality and user experience. to prep… sept. 2, 2025 pmc oai-pmh api updated the pmc oai-pmh api, a tool that allows users to retrieve metadata in dublin core or jats xml for all articles in pmc, has bee… highlights updated full-text search now available ncbi has updated the pubmed central (pmc) full-text search functionality and user experience. read more follow ncbi ncbi on x (formerly known as twitter) ncbi on facebook ncbi on linkedin ncbi on github ncbi rss feed connect with nlm nlm on x (formerly known as twitter) nlm on facebook nlm on youtube national library of medicine 8600 rockville pike bethesda, md 20894 web policies foia hhs vulnerability disclosure help accessibility careers nlm nih hhs usa.gov figshare - credit for all your research - home - figshare skip to main content browse browse and search search store , share , discover research get more citations