[2401.00001] sector rotation by factor model and fundamental analysis skip to main content in just 5 minutes help us improve arxiv: annual global survey we gratefully acknowledge support from the simons foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. donate > q-fin > arxiv:2401.00001 help | advanced search all fields title author abstract comments journal reference acm classification msc classification report number arxiv identifier doi orcid arxiv author id help pages full text search open search go open navigation menu quick links login help pages about quantitative finance > portfolio management arxiv:2401.00001 (q-fin) [submitted on 18 nov 2023] title: sector rotation by factor model and fundamental analysis authors: runjia yang , beining shi view a pdf of the paper titled sector rotation by factor model and fundamental analysis, by runjia yang and beining shi view pdf html (experimental) abstract: this study presents an analytical approach to sector rotation, leveraging both factor models and fundamental metrics. we initiate with a systematic classification of sectors, followed by an empirical investigation into their returns. through factor analysis, the paper underscores the significance of momentum and short-term reversion in dictating sectoral shifts. a subsequent in-depth fundamental analysis evaluates metrics such as pe, pb, ev-to-ebitda, dividend yield, among others. our primary contribution lies in developing a predictive framework based on these fundamental indicators. the constructed models, post rigorous training, exhibit noteworthy predictive capabilities. the findings furnish a nuanced understanding of sector rotation strategies, with implications for asset management and portfolio construction in the financial domain. subjects: portfolio management (q-fin.pm) cite as: arxiv:2401.00001 [q-fin.pm] (or arxiv:2401.00001v1 [q-fin.pm] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2401.00001 focus to learn more arxiv-issued doi via datacite submission history from: runjia yang [ view email ] [v1] sat, 18 nov 2023 05:01:37 utc (8,209 kb) full-text links: access paper: view a pdf of the paper titled sector rotation by factor model and fundamental analysis, by runjia yang and beining shi view pdf html (experimental) tex source view license current browse context: q-fin.pm < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-01 change to browse by: q-fin references & citations nasa ads google scholar semantic scholar export bibtex citation loading... bibtex formatted citation × loading... data provided by: bookmark bibliographic tools bibliographic and citation tools bibliographic explorer toggle bibliographic explorer ( what is the explorer? ) connected papers toggle connected papers ( what is connected papers? ) litmaps toggle litmaps ( what is litmaps? ) scite.ai toggle scite smart citations ( what are smart citations? ) code, data, media code, data and media associated with this article alphaxiv toggle alphaxiv ( what is alphaxiv? ) links to code toggle catalyzex code finder for papers ( what is catalyzex? ) dagshub toggle dagshub ( what is dagshub? ) gotitpub toggle gotit.pub ( what is gotitpub? ) huggingface toggle hugging face ( what is huggingface? ) links to code toggle papers with code ( what is papers with code? ) sciencecast toggle sciencecast ( what is sciencecast? ) demos demos replicate toggle replicate ( what is replicate? ) spaces toggle hugging face spaces ( what is spaces? ) spaces toggle txyz.ai ( what is txyz.ai? ) related papers recommenders and search tools link to influence flower influence flower ( what are influence flowers? ) core recommender toggle core recommender ( what is core? ) author venue institution topic about arxivlabs arxivlabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arxivlabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arxiv features directly on our website. both individuals and organizations that work with arxivlabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arxiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. have an idea for a project that will add value for arxiv's community? learn more about arxivlabs . which authors of this paper are endorsers? | disable mathjax ( what is mathjax? ) about help contact arxiv click here to contact arxiv contact subscribe to arxiv mailings click here to subscribe subscribe copyright privacy policy web accessibility assistance arxiv operational status [2401.00002] prompt emission of relativistic protons up to gev energies from m6.4-class solar flare on july 17, 2023 skip to main content we gratefully acknowledge support from the simons foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. donate > astro-ph > arxiv:2401.00002 help | advanced search all fields title author abstract comments journal reference acm classification msc classification report number arxiv identifier doi orcid arxiv author id help pages full text search open search go open navigation menu quick links login help pages about astrophysics > solar and stellar astrophysics arxiv:2401.00002 (astro-ph) [submitted on 28 nov 2023] title: prompt emission of relativistic protons up to gev energies from m6.4-class solar flare on july 17, 2023 authors: carlos navia , marcel oliveira , andre nepomuceno view a pdf of the paper titled prompt emission of relativistic protons up to gev energies from m6.4-class solar flare on july 17, 2023, by carlos navia and 2 other authors view pdf html (experimental) abstract: we show evidence of particle acceleration at gev energies associated directly with protons from the prompt emission of a long-duration m6-class solar flare on july 17, 2023, rather than from protons acceleration by shocks from its associated coronal mass ejection (cme), which erupted with a speed of 1342 km/s. solar energetic particles (sep) accelerated by the blast have reached earth, up to an almost s3 (strong) category of a radiation storm on the noaa scale. also, we show a temporal correlation between the fast rising of goes-16 proton and muon excess at ground level in the count rate of the new-tupi muon detector at the central saa region. a monte carlo spectral analysis based on muon excess at new-tupi is consistent with the acceleration of electrons and protons (ions) up to relativistic energies (gev energy range) in the impulsive phase of the flare. in addition, we present another two marginal particle excesses (with low confidence) at ground-level detectors in correlation with the solar flare prompt emission.