radio occultation atmosphere climate earth observation global signal processing weather this is an updating archive of radio occultation (ro) data using the transmitters of the global navigation satellite systems (gnss) as generated and processed by the cosmic daac (ucar), the jet propulsion laboratory (jpl) of the california institute of technology, and the radio occultation meteorology satellite application facility (romsaf). the contributions for ucar and romsaf are currently active. this dataset is funded by the nasa earth science data systems and the advancing collaborative connections for earth system science (access) 2019 program. details → usage examples a technical description of atmospheric sounding by gps occultation by hajj, g.a. et al. observing earth's atmosphere with radio occultation measurements using the global positioning system by kursinski, e.r. et al. utilities for handling data in the aws open data registry archive of gnss radio occultation data by stephen leroy, amy mcvey tutorial demonstrations for working with gnss radio occultation data in aws open data registry archive by stephen leroy, amy mcvey, hailing zhang, chi ao see 4 usage examples → encyclopedia of dna elements (encode) bioinformatics biology genetic genomic life sciences the encyclopedia of dna elements (encode) consortium is an international collaboration of research groups funded by the national human genome research institute (nhgri). the goal of encode is to build a comprehensive parts list of functional elements in the human genome, including elements that act at the protein and rna levels, and regulatory elements that control cells and circumstances in which a gene is active. encode investigators employ a variety of assays and methods to identify functional elements. the discovery and annotation of gene elements is accomplished primarily by sequencing a ... details → usage examples exploring encode data from ec2 with jupyter notebook by keenan graham new developments on the encyclopedia of dna elements (encode) data portal by luo et al 2020 ingesting encode data into tiledb with s3 backend by otto jolanki encode ctcf chip-seq data correlation across different cell types by paul sud see 4 usage examples → geoglows hydrological model version 2 geopackage hydrography hydrologic model hydrology simulations zarr geoglows is the group on earth observation's global water sustainability program. it coordinates efforts from public and private entities to make application ready river data more accessible and sustainably available to underdeveloped regions. the geoglows hydrological model provides a retrospective and daily forecast of global river discharge at 7 million river sub-basins. the stream network is a hydrologically conditioned subset of the tdx-hydro streams and basins data produced by the united state's national geospatial intelligence agency. the daily forecast provides 3 hourly average discharge in a 51 member ensemble and 15 day lead time derived from the ecmwf integrated forecast system (ifs). the retrospective simulation is derived from era5 climate reanalysis data and provides daily average streamflow beginning on 1 january 1940. new forecasts are uploaded daily and the retrospective simulation is updated weekly on sundays to keep the lag time between 5 and 12 days. the geoglows-v2 bucket contains: (1) model configuration files used to generate the simulations, (2) the gis streams datasets used by the model, (3) the gis streams datasets optimized for visualizations used by esri's living atlas layer, (4) several supporting table of metadata including country names, river names, hydrological properties used for modeling. the geoglows-v2-forecasts bucket contains: (1) daily 15 forecasts in zarr format optimized for time series queries of all ensemble members in the prediction, (2) csv formatted summary files optimized for producing time series animated web maps for the entire global streams dataset. the geoglows-v2-retrospective bucket contains: (1) the model retrospective outputs in (1a) zarr format optimized for time series queries of up to a few hundred rivers on demand as well as (1b) in netcdf format best for bulk download... details → usage examples river forecast system v2 background, training and tutorials by riley hales geoglows hydroviewer by riley hales advancing global hydrologic modeling with the geoglows ecmwf streamflow service by hales et al. pygeoglows by riley hales see 4 usage examples → gpm imerg early precipitation l3 1 day 0.1 degree x 0.1 degree v07 (gpm_3imergde) at ges disc atmosphere climate coastal datacenter global hydrology land metadata netcdf opendap version 07 is the current version of the data set. older versions will no longer be available and have been superseded by version 07.the integrated multi-satellite retrievals for gpm (imerg) imerg is a nasa product estimating global surface precipitation rates at a high resolution of 0.1â° every half-hour beginning 2000. it is part of the joint nasa-jaxa global precipitation measurement (gpm) mission, using the gpm core observatory satellite as the standard to combine precipitation observations from an international constellation of satellites using advanced techniques. imerg can be used for global-scale applications as well as over regions with sparse or no reliable surface observations. the fine spatial and temporal resolution of imerg data allows them to be accumulated to the scale of the application for increased skill. imerg has three runs with varying latencies in response to a range of application needs: rapid-response applications (early run, 4-h latency), same/next-day applications (late run, 14-h latency), and post-real-time research (final run, 3.5-month latency). while imerg strives for consistency and accuracy, satellite estimates of precipitation are expected to have lower skill over frozen surfaces, complex terrain, and coastal zones. as well, the changing gpm satellite constellation over time may introduce artifacts that affect studies focusing on multi-year changes.this dataset is the gpm level 3 imerg early daily 10 x 10 km (gpm_3imergde) derived from the half-hourly gpm_3imerghhe. the derived result represents an early (expedited) estimate of the daily mean precipitation rate in mm/day. the dataset is produced by first computing the mean precipitation rate in (mm/hour) in every grid cell, and then multiplying the result by 24. this minimizes the possible dry bias in versions before "07", in the simple daily totals for cells where less than 48 half-hourly observations are valid for the day. the latter under-sampling is very rare in the combined microwave-infrared (and