household chores. access to electricity improves people’s living conditions in many ways. the world bank data on the world map captures whether people have access to the most basic electricity supply — just enough to provide basic lighting and charge a phone or power a radio for 4 hours per day. it shows that, especially in several african countries, a large share of the population lacks the benefits that basic electricity offers. no radio and no light at night. explore the data explore the data data explorers see all our data explorers interactive visualization tools to explore a wide range of related indicators. poverty data explorer population & demography data explorer global health data explorer energy data explorer all our topics all our data, research, and writing — topic by topic. population and demographic change population change : population growth age structure gender ratio births & deaths : life expectancy fertility rate child & infant mortality geography of the world population : urbanization migration health life & death : global health causes of death child & infant mortality burden of disease life expectancy mental health suicides cardiovascular diseases cancer maternal mortality health risks : air pollution outdoor air pollution indoor air pollution lead pollution alcohol consumption illicit drug use obesity smoking infectious diseases : pandemics covid-19 malaria hiv/aids diarrheal diseases tuberculosis polio neglected tropical diseases influenza pneumonia tetanus mpox (monkeypox) smallpox health institutions & interventions : eradication of diseases vaccination antibiotics & antibiotic resistance healthcare spending energy and environment climate & air : climate change co2 & greenhouse gas emissions air pollution outdoor air pollution indoor air pollution ozone layer energy systems : energy access to energy energy mix fossil fuels nuclear energy renewable energy metals & minerals environment & ecosystems : natural disasters biodiversity environmental impacts of food production fish & overfishing animal welfare land use water use & stress forests & deforestation wildfires waste & pollution : plastic pollution oil spills lead pollution waste management clean water & sanitation clean water sanitation electricity : electricity mix food and agriculture food production : agricultural production meat & dairy production fish & overfishing crop yields animal welfare environmental impacts of food production farm size agricultural inputs : land use fertilizers pesticides employment in agriculture nutrition : hunger & undernourishment food supply food prices obesity famines diet compositions micronutrient deficiency human height poverty and economic development poverty & prosperity : poverty economic growth economic inequality foreign aid economic inequality by gender public sector : government spending state capacity taxation corruption healthcare spending education spending military personnel & spending work & employment : women's employment working hours global connections : trade & globalization migration tourism clean water & sanitation clean water sanitation education and knowledge education : global education literacy education spending knowledge : research & development internet books innovation and technological change technological change research & development artificial intelligence internet space exploration & satellites transport living conditions, community and wellbeing housing & infrastructure : homelessness access to energy indoor air pollution clean water & sanitation clean water sanitation light at night time use working hours relationships : marriages & divorces loneliness & social connections trust happiness & wellbeing : happiness & life satisfaction human development index (hdi) human rights and democracy human rights democracy state capacity women's rights lgbt+ rights corruption economic inequality by gender child labor violence against children & children's rights violence and war war & peace nuclear weapons homicides terrorism state capacity military personnel & spending violence against children & children's rights our world in data is free and accessible for everyone. help us do this work by making a donation. donate now our world in data is a project of global change data lab , a nonprofit based in the uk (reg. charity no. 1186433). our charts, articles, and data are licensed under cc by , unless stated otherwise. tools and software we develop are open source under the mit license . third-party materials, including some charts and data, are subject to third-party licenses. see our faqs for more details. explore topics data insights resources latest articles sdg tracker teaching with owid about about us organization funding team jobs faqs rss feeds research & writing data insights follow us privacy policy legal disclaimer grapher license data explorers - our world in data our world in data browse by topic data insights resources about subscribe donate data explorers our data explorers gather many indicators together to provide comprehensive overviews of their topics. air pollution explore historical emissions of air pollutants across the world. animal welfare explore the number of animals slaughtered and welfare impacts. climate change impacts explore the impacts of global climate change. co₂ and greenhouse gas emissions explore data on greenhouse gas emissions. conflict explore the world's conflicts through their deaths, number, and locations. conflict data source explore the world's conflicts through the leading approaches to measuring them. countries in conflict explore conflict deaths and death rates across the world's countries. covid-19 explore global data on covid-19. crop yields explore crop yields across the world. democracy explore changes in the world's democratic and non-democratic systems. economic inequality explore key inequality indicators from the world inequality database and the world bank. energy explore data on energy production and sources. environmental impacts of food explore the land use, carbon, and water footprints of food products. fertilizers explore the use and impact of fertilizers across the world. fish stocks explore available data on the world's fish stocks. food prices explore the cost and affordability of diets across the world. fossil fuels explore reserves, production, trade, and consumption of fossil fuels. global food explore the world's food system, from production to supply. global health explore data on child and maternal health, diseases, life expectancy, and health systems around the world. impacts of energy production explore the environmental and health impacts of electricity sources. influenza explore global data produced by the world health organization on influenza symptoms and cases. ipcc scenarios explore the global shared socioeconomic pathways used in ipcc scenarios.