are measured continuously.channels 1 and 2 have 250 m resolution, channels 3 through 7 have 500 m resolution. however, for the modis l1b 500 m product, the 250 m band radiance data and their associated uncertainties have been aggregated to 500m resolution. thus the entire channel data set has been co-registered to the same spatial scale in the 500 m product. separate l1b products are available for the 250 m resolution channels (mod02qkm) and 1 km resolution channels (mod021km). for the latter product, the 250 m and 500 m channel data (bands 1 through 7) have been aggregated into equivalent 1 km pixel values.spatial resolution for pixels at nadir is 500 km, degrading to 2.4 km in the along-scan direction at the scan extremes. however, thanks to the overlapping of consecutive swaths and respectively pixels there, the resulting resolution at the scan extremes is about 1 km. a 55 degree scanning pattern at the eos orbit of 705 km results in a 2330 km orbital swath width and provides global coverage every one to two days. a single modis level 1b 500 m granule will contain a scene built from 203 scans sampled 2708 times in the cross-track direction, corresponding to approximately 5 minutes worth of data; thus 288 granules will be produced per day. since an individual modis scan will contain 20 along-track spatial elements for the 500 m channels, the scene will be composed of (2708 x 4060) pixels, resulting in a spatial coverage of (2330 km x 2040 km). due to the modis scan geometry, there will be increasing scan overlap beyond about 20 degrees scan angle. to summarize, the modis l1b 500 m data product consists of: calibrated radiances, uncertainties and number of samples for (2) 250 m reflected solar bands aggregated to 500 m resolution calibrated radiances and uncertainties for (5) 500 m reflected solar bands geolocation for 1km pixels, that must be interpolated to get 500 m pixel locations. for the relationship of 1km pixels to 500m pixels, see the geolocation atbd https://modis.gsfc.nasa.gov/data/atbd/atbd_mod28_v3.pdf . calibration data for all channels (scale and offset) comprehensive set of file-level metadata summarizing the spatial, temporal and parameter attributes of the data, as well as auxiliary information pertaining to instrument status and data quality characterization users requiring all geolocation and solar/satellite geometry fields at 1km resolution can obtain the separate modis level 1 geolocation product (mod03) from laads https://ladsweb.modaps.eosdis.nasa.gov/ . the shortname for this product is mod02hkm and is stored in the earth observing system hierarchical data format (hdf-eos). a typical mod02hkm file size is approximately 135 mb.environmental information derived from modis l1b measurements will offer a comprehensive and unprecedented look at terrestrial, atmospheric, and ocean phenomenology for a wide and diverse community of users throughout the world.see the modis characterization support team webpage for more c6 product information at: https://mcst.gsfc.nasa.gov/l1b/product-information or visit science team homepage at: https://modis.gsfc.nasa.gov/data/dataprod/ read our doc on how to get aws credentials to retrieve this data: details → usage examples modis level 1b - calibrated radiances - natural color rgb - 500m by eumetsat see 1 usage example → modis/terra net evapotranspiration 8-day l4 global 500m sin grid v061 atmosphere earth observation evapotranspiration geospatial global hdf land land cover opendap water the mod16a2 version 6.1 evapotranspiration/latent heat flux product is an 8-day composite dataset produced at 500 meter (m) pixel resolution. the algorithm used for the mod16 data product collection is based on the logic of the penman-monteith equation, which includes inputs of daily meteorological reanalysis data along with moderate resolution imaging spectroradiometer (modis) remotely sensed data products such as vegetation property dynamics, albedo, and land cover. provided in the mod16a2 product are layers for composited evapotranspiration (et), latent heat flux (le), potential et (pet) and potential le (ple) along with a quality control layer. two low resolution browse images, et and le, are also available for each mod16a2 granule.the pixel values for the two evapotranspiration layers (et and pet) are the sum of all eight days within the composite period and the pixel values for the two latent heat layers (le and ple) are the average of all eight days within the composite period. note that the last acquisition period of each year is a 5 or 6-day composite period, depending on the year.known issues operational and uncertainty issues are provided under section 3 in the user guide. for complete information about known issues please refer to the modis/viirs land quality assessment website . improvements/changes from previous versions the version 6.1 level-1b (l1b) products have been improved by undergoing various calibration changes that include: changes to the response-versus-scan angle (rvs) approach that affects reflectance bands for aqua and terra modis, corrections to adjust for the optical crosstalk in terra modis infrared (ir) bands, and corrections to the terra modis forward look-u... details → usage examples download files from s3 using boto3 by lpdaac see 1 usage example → modis/terra surface reflectance 8-day l3 global 500m sin grid v061 earth observation geospatial global hdf land opendap satellite imagery the moderate resolution imaging spectroradiometer (modis) terra mod09a1 version 6.1 product provides an estimate of the surface spectral reflectance of terra modis bands 1 through 7 corrected for atmospheric conditions such as gasses, aerosols, and rayleigh scattering. along with the seven 500 meter (m) reflectance bands are two quality layers and four observation bands. for each pixel, a value is selected from all the acquisitions within the 8-day composite period. the criteria for the pixel choice include cloud and solar zenith. when several acquisitions meet the criteria the pixel with the minimum channel 3 (blue) value is used. known issues for complete information about known issues please refer to the modis/viirs land quality assessment website . improvements/changes from previous versions the version 6.1 level-1b (l1b) products have been improved by undergoing various calibration changes that include: changes to the response-versus-scan angle (rvs) approach that affects reflectance bands for aqua and terra modis, corrections to adjust for the optical crosstalk in terra modis infrared (ir) bands, and