it into qgis by j. laura discovering and downloading data via the command line by j. laura discovering and downloading data with python by j. laura see 4 usage examples → nasa / usgs controlled themis mosaics cog planetary satellite imagery stac these data are infrared image mosaics, tiled to the mars quadrangle, generated using thermal emission imaging system (themis) images from the 2001 mars odyssey orbiter mission. the mosaic is generated at the full resolution of the themis infrared dataset, which is approximately 100 meters/pixel. the mosaic was absolutely photogrammetrically controlled to an improved viking mdim network that was develop by the usgs astrogeology processing group using the integrated software for imagers and spectrometers. image-to-image alignment precision is subpixel (i.e., <100m). these 8-bit, qualitative d... details → usage examples discovering and downloading data with python by j. laura pystac client by pystac-client contributors querying for data in an roi and loading it into qgis by j. laura discovering and downloading data via the command line by j. laura see 4 usage examples → nasa / usgs europa controlled observation mosaics cog planetary satellite imagery stac the solid state imager (ssi) on nasa's galileo spacecraft acquired more than 500 images of jupiter's moon, europa. these images vary from relatively low-resolution hemispherical imaging, to high-resolution targeted images that cover a small portion of the surface. here we provide a set of 92 image mosaics generated from minimally processed, projected galileo images with photogrammetrically improved locations on europa's surface. these images provide users with nearly the entire galileo europa imaging dataset at its native resolution and with improved relative image locations. the s... details → usage examples discovering and downloading data via the command line by j. laura querying for data in an roi and loading it into qgis by j. laura discovering and downloading data with python by j. laura pystac client by pystac-client contributors see 4 usage examples → nasa / usgs europa controlled observations cog planetary satellite imagery stac the solid state imager (ssi) on nasa's galileo spacecraft acquired more than 500 images of jupiter's moon, europa. these images vary from relatively low-resolution hemispherical imaging, to high-resolution targeted images that cover a small portion of the surface. here we provide a set of 481 minimally processed, projected galileo images with photogrammetrically improved locations on europa's surface. these individual images were subsequently used as input into a set of 92 observation mosaics. these images provide users with nearly the entire galileo europa imaging dataset at its native resolution and with improved relative image locations. the solid state imager on nasa's galileo spacecraft provided the only moderate- to high-resolution images of jupiter's moon, europa. unfortunately, uncertainty in the position and pointing of the spacecraft, as well as the position and orientation of europa, when the images were acquired resulted in significant errors in image locations on the surface. the result of these errors is that images acquired during different galileo orbits, or even at different times during the same orbit, are significantly misaligned (errors of up to 100 km on the surface). the dataset provides a set of individual images that can be used for scientific analysis ... details → usage examples querying for data in an roi and loading it into qgis by j. laura discovering and downloading data with python by j. laura discovering and downloading data via the command line by j. laura pystac client by pystac-client contributors see 4 usage examples → nasa / usgs mars reconnaissance orbiter (mro) context camera (ctx) targeted dtms cog elevation planetary satellite imagery stac as of march, 2023 the mars reconnaissance orbiter (mro) high resolution science experiment (hirise) sensor has collected more than 5000 targeted stereopairs. during hirise acquisition, the context camera (ctx) also collects lower resolution, higher spatial extent context images. these ctx acquisitions are also targeted stereopairs. this data set contains targeted ctx dtms and orthoimages, created using the nasa ames stereopipeline. these data have been created using relatively controlled ctx images that have been globally bundle adjusted using the usgs integrated system for imagers and spectro... details → usage examples pystac client by pystac-client contributors querying for data in an roi and loading it into qgis by j. laura discovering and downloading data with python by j. laura discovering and downloading data via the command line by j. laura see 4 usage examples → nasa / usgs released hirise digital terrain models cog planetary satellite imagery stac these data are digital terrain models (dtms) created by multiple different institutions and released to the planetary data system (pds) by the university of arizona. the data are processed from the planetary data system (pds) stored jp2 files, map projected, and converted to cloud optimized geotiffs (cogs) for efficient remote data access. these data are controlled to the mars orbiter laser altimeter (mola). therefore, they are a proxy for the geodetic coordinate reference frame. these data are not guaranteed to co-register with an uncontrolled products (e.g., the uncontrolled high resolution ... details → usage examples pystac client by pystac-client contributors querying for data in an roi and loading it into qgis by j. laura discovering and downloading data with python by j. laura discovering and downloading data via the command line by j. laura see 4 usage examples → nasa / usgs uncontrolled hirise rdrs cog planetary satellite imagery stac these data are red and color reduced data record (rdr) observations collected and originally processed by the high resolution imaging science experiment (hirise) team. the mdata are processed from the planetary data system (pds) stored rdrs, map projected, and converted to cloud optimized geotiffs (cogs) for efficient remote data access. these data are not photogrammetrically controlled and use a priori naif spice pointing. therefore, these data will not co-register with controlled data products. data are released using simple cylindrical (planetocentric positive east, center longitude 0, -180... details → usage examples pystac client by pystac-client contributors querying for data in an roi and loading it into qgis by j. laura discovering and