each minutely different, or perturbed, from the original observations. with global coverage, gefs is produced fo... details → noaa global hydro estimator (ghe) / enterprise rain rate agriculture meteorological water weather note - the legacy on-premises version of the global hydroestimator (ghe) is being retired. it is being replaced by the global enterprise rain rate algorithm. you can find enterprise rain rate products in the new bucket listed under the resources section. global hydro-estimator provides a global mosaic imagery of rainfall estimates from multi-geostationary satellites, which currently includes goes-16, goes-15, meteosat-8, meteosat-11 and himawari-8. the ghe products include: instantaneous rain rate, 1 hour, 3 hour, 6 hour, 24 hour and also multi-day rainfall accumulation. details → noaa global mosaic of geostationary satellite imagery (gmgsi) agriculture climate meteorological weather noaa/nesdis global mosaic of geostationary satellite imagery (gmgsi) visible (vis), shortwave infrared (sir), longwave infrared (lir) imagery, and water vapor imagery (wv) are composited from data from several geostationary satellites orbiting the globe, including the goes-east and goes-west satellites operated by u.s. noaa/nesdis, the meteosat-10 and meteosat-9 satellites from themeteosat second generation (msg) series of satellites operated by european organization for the exploitation of meteorological satellites (eumetsat), and the himawari-9 satellite operated by the japan meteorological ... details → noaa global real-time ocean forecast system (global rtofs) climate coastal disaster response environmental global meteorological oceans water weather noaa is soliciting public comment on petential changes to the real time ocean forecast system (rtofs) through march 27, 2024. please see public notice at ( https://www.weather.gov/media/notification/pdf_2023_24/pns24-12_rtofs_v2.4.0.pdf ) noaa's global real-time ocean forecast system (global rtofs) provides users with nowcasts (analyses of near present conditions) and forecast guidance up to eight days of ocean temperature and salinity, water velocity, sea surface elevation, sea ice coverage and sea ice thickness. the global operational real-time ocean forecast system (global rtofs) is based on an eddy resolving 1/12â° global hycom (hybrid coordinates ocean model) ( https://www.hycom.org/ ), which is coupled to the community ice code (cice) version 4 ( https://www.arcus.org/witness-the-arctic/2018/5/highlight/1 ). the rtofs grid has a 1/12 degree horizontal resolution and 41 hybrid vertical levels on a global tripolar grid. since 2020, the rtofs system implements a multivariate, multi-scale 3dvar data assimilation algorithm (cummings and smedstad, 2014) using a 24-hour update cycle. the data types presently assimilated include (1) satellite sea surface temperature (sst) from metop-b, jpss-viirs, and in-situ sst, from ships, fixed and drifting buoys (2) sea surface salinity (sss) from smap, smos, and buoys (3) profiles of temperature and salinity from animal-borne, alamo floats, argo floats, ctd, fixed buoys, gliders, tesac, and xbt (4) absolute dynamic topography (adt) from altika, cryosat, jason-3, sentinel 3a, 3b, 6a (5) sea ice concentration from ssmi/s, amsr2 the system is designed to incorporate new observing systems as the data becomes available. once the observations go through a fully automated quality control and thinning process, the increments, or corrections, are obtained by executing the 3d variational algorithm. the increments are then added to the 24-hours forecast fields using a 6-hourly incremental analysis update. an earlier version of the system is described in garraffo et al (2020). garraffo, z.d., j.a. cummings, s. paturi, y. hao, d. iredell, t. spindler, b. balasubramanian, i. rivin, h-c. kim, a. mehra, 2020. real time ocean-sea ice coupled three dimensional variational global data assimilative ocean forecast system. in research activities in earth system modeling, edited by e. astakhova, wmo, world climate research program report no.6, july 2020. cummings, j. a. and o. m. smedstad. 2013. variational data assimilation for the global ocean. data assimilation for atmospheric, oceanic and hydrologic applications (vol ii) s. park and l. xu (eds), springer, chapter 13, 303-343. global... details → noaa global surge and tide operational forecast system 2-d (stofs-2d-global) climate coastal disaster response environmental global meteorological oceans water weather notice - the coast survey development laboratory (csdl) in noaa/national ocean service (nos)/office of coast survey has upgraded the surge and tide operational forecast system (stofs, formerly estofs) to version 2.1. a service change notice (scn) has been issued and can be found " here " noaa's global surge and tide operational forecast system 2-d (stofs-2d-global) provides users with nowcasts (analyses of near present conditions) and forecast guidance of water level conditions for the entire globe. stofs-2d-global has been developed to serve the marine navigation, weather forecasting, and disaster mitigation user communities. stofs-2d-global was developed in a collaborative effort between the noaa/national ocean service (nos)/office of coast survey, the noaa/national weather service (nws)/national centers for environmental prediction (ncep) central operations (nco), the university of notre dame, the university of north carolina, and the water institute of the gulf. the model generates forecasts out to 180 hours four times per day; forecast output includes water levels caused by the combined effects of storm surge and tides, by astronomical tides alone, and by sub-tidal water levels (isolated storm surge). the hydrodynamic model employed by stofs-2d-global is the advanced circulation (adcirc) finite element model. the model is forced by gfs winds, mean sea level pressure, and sea ice. the unstructured grid used by stofs-2d-global consists of 12,785,004 nodes and 24,875,336 triangular elements. coastal res... details → noaa historical maps and charts coastal geospatial history mapping survey historical charts are not for navigation. the collection primarily consists of historic charts and maps produced by noaa's coast survey and its predecessors, especially the u.s. coast and geodetic survey and the u.s. lake survey (previously under the department of war). the collection also includes bathymetric maps, land sketches, civil war battle maps, aeronautical charting from the 1930s to the 1950s, and other drawings and photographs. details → noaa hurricane analysis and forecast system (hafs) agriculture climate meteorological weather the last several hurricane seasons have been active with records being set for the number of tropical storms and hurricanes in the atlantic basin. these record-breaking seasons underscore the importance of accurate hurricane forecasting. imperative to increased forecasting skill for hurricanes is the development of the hurricane forecast analysis system or hafs. to accelerate improvements in hurricane forecasting, this project