2018... uploaded on november 29, 2025 part of manywords 0 views 0 downloads november 12, 2025 (v1.0.0) dataset open russian word2vec embeddings trained on opensubtitles part 1 grim, philip buchanan, erin this dataset contains the subs2vec embeddings for russian, as presented in https://zenodo.org/records/17243814. the embeddings were trained on large-scale subtitle corpora and represent semantic vector spaces derived from naturalistic language use in films and television from the opensubtitles 2018... uploaded on november 29, 2025 part of manywords 0 views 0 downloads november 27, 2025 (1.0) dataset open mass concentrations of accumulation mode particles during acclip related to paper "regional contributions to the chemical composition of the asian tropopause aerosol layer (atal)" eppers, oliver description the netcdf files contain aerosol mass concentrations of particles with optical diameters > 120 nm as well as flight parameters of the hiaper gv aircraft. the mass concentrations were calculated from combined volume size distributions resulting from measurements with nuclei-mode aerosol size spectrometer (nmass) and ultra-high... uploaded on november 28, 2025 part of the tropopause in a changing atmosphere (trr301) 14 views 27 downloads november 28, 2025 (v1) software open merger of non-compact binaries: triggering mechanisms and merger timescales of w uma contact binaries (mesa-r23.05.1) jiang, dengkai these mesa inlist files were used to compute the stellar evolution models and merger timescales for the w uma contact binaries studied in "merger of non-compact binaries: triggering mechanisms and merger timescales of w uma contact binaries" (mesa-r23.05.1) uploaded on november 28, 2025 part of modules for experiments in stellar astrophysics (mesa) 19 views 13 downloads november 28, 2025 (v0.3.0) software open pontibus: experimental openfe protocols for force field development alibay, irfan thompson, matthew mitchell, joshua a. major changes update of pontibus for use with openfe & gufe v1.7+. includes new validation routines for the asfeprotocol. what's changed [pre-commit.ci] pre-commit autoupdate by @pre-commit-ci[bot] in https://github.com/openfreeenergy/pontibus/pull/160 update for latest openfe & gufe v1.7.x by @ialibay in... uploaded on november 28, 2025 part of open free energy 3 more versions exist for this record 88 views 25 downloads july 29, 2025 (1.0.0) dataset open general healthcare access deprivation in lagos, nigeria pajarito grajales, diego sa'adu da'u, sabitu baruwa, kehinde produced as part of the ideamaps data ecosystem project, this dataset maps the degree of access deprivation to general healthcare. it is a spatial representation of how communities can reach, choose and use the general healthcare services offered by public facilities. areas with higher levels of access deprivation are associated with greater... uploaded on november 28, 2025 part of urban sustainability & participation. urban big data centre 19 views 10 downloads july 29, 2025 (1.0.0) dataset open general healthcare access deprivation modelled dataset in kano, nigeria pajarito grajales, diego sa'adu da'u, sabitu baruwa, kehinde produced as part of the ideamaps data ecosystem project, this dataset maps the degree of access deprivation to general healthcare. it is a spatial representation of how communities can reach, choose and use the general healthcare services offered by public facilities. areas with higher levels of access deprivation are associated with greater... uploaded on november 28, 2025 part of urban sustainability & participation. urban big data centre 15 views 5 downloads july 29, 2025 (1.0.0) dataset open general healthcare access deprivation modelled dataset in narobi, kenya pajarito grajales, diego sa'adu da'u, sabitu baruwa, kehinde produced as part of the ideamaps data ecosystem project, this dataset maps the degree of access deprivation to general healthcare. it is a spatial representation of how communities can reach, choose and use the general healthcare services offered by public facilities. areas with higher levels of access deprivation are associated with greater... uploaded on november 28, 2025 part of urban sustainability & participation. urban big data centre 17 views 0 downloads july 12, 2023 (v1) presentation open workflow-induced uncertainty in probabilistic landslide hazard maps yildiz, anil kowalski, julia uploaded on november 28, 2025 part of methods for model-based development in computational engineering 22 views 11 downloads july 12, 2023 (v1) presentation open psimpy: gp emulation-based sensitivity analysis, uncertainty quantification, and calibration of landslide simulators zhao, hu yildiz, anil bagherinejad, nazanin uploaded on november 28, 2025 part of methods for model-based development in computational engineering 20 views 7 downloads more why use zenodo? safe — your research is stored safely for the future in cern’s data centre for as long as cern exists trusted — built and operated by cern and openaire to ensure that everyone can join in open science citeable — every upload is assigned a digital object identifier (doi), to make them citable and trackable no waiting time — uploads are made available online as soon as you hit publish, and your doi is registered within seconds open or closed — share e.g. anonymized clinical trial data with only medical professionals via our restricted access mode versioning — easily update your dataset with our versioning feature github integration — easily preserve your github repository in zenodo usage statistics — all uploads display standards compliant usage statistics newsletter receive updates on our latest developments, projects and upcoming webinars sent quarterly. e-mail * name about about policies infrastructure principles projects roadmap contact blog blog help faq docs guides support developers rest api oai-pmh contribute github donate funded by powered by cern data centre & inveniordm status privacy policy cookie policy terms of use support this site uses cookies. find out more on how we use cookies accept all cookies accept only essential cookies zenodo skip to main communities my dashboard log in sign up communities created and curated by zenodo users. read more new community featured communities new communities see all want your own community? it's easy. just click the button to get started. new community curate — accept/reject what goes in your community collection. export — your community collection is automatically exported via oai-pmh upload — get custom upload link to send to people about about policies infrastructure principles projects roadmap contact blog blog help faq docs guides support developers rest api oai-pmh contribute github donate funded by powered by cern data centre