at 10 hz in diverse conditions. there are 5.9m+ images and 3.3m+ 2d annotations of airborne objects in the sequences. there are 3,306,350 frames without labels as they contain no airborne objects. for images with labels, there are on average 1.3 labels per image. all airborne objects in the dataset are labelled. details → amazon berkeley objects dataset amazon.science computer vision deep learning information retrieval machine learning machine translation amazon berkeley objects (abo) is a collection of 147,702 product listings with multilingual metadata and 398,212 unique catalog images. 8,222 listings come with turntable photography (also referred as "spin" or "360âº-view" images), as sequences of 24 or 72 images, for a total of 586,584 images in 8,209 unique sequences. for 7,953 products, the collection also provides high-quality 3d models, as gltf 2.0 files. details → amazon seller contact intent sequence amazon.science hawkes process machine learning temporal point process when sellers need help from amazon, such as how to create a listing, they often reach out to amazon seller support through email, chat or phone. for each contact, we assign an intent so that we can manage the request more easily. the data we present in this release includes 548k contacts with 118 intents from 70k sellers sampled from recent years. there are 3 columns. 1. de-identified seller id - seller_id_anon; 2. noisy inter-arrival time in the unit of hour between contacts - interarrival_time_hr_noisy; 3. an integer that represents the contact intent - contact_intent. note that, to balance ... details → blue brain open data brain images brain models electrophysiology ion channels life sciences microcircuit modeling and simulation morphological reconstructions mus musculus neuroscience simulation neuroscience single neuron models the blue brain open data represents an extensive neuroscience dataset encompassing a diverse range of data types, including experimental, model, and simulation data, along with images and videos depicting reconstructed neurons and brain regions. details → clay model v0 embeddings aerial imagery computer vision earth observation imaging machine learning satellite imagery machine learning model embeddings dataset providing pre-computed feature representations for satellite and aerial imagery analysis. details → clay v1.5 naip-2 aerial imagery agriculture environmental land use natural resource national agriculture imagery program (naip) dataset providing high-resolution aerial imagery for agricultural monitoring, land use analysis, and natural resource management. details → clay v1.5 sentinel-2 agriculture earth observation environmental land use satellite imagery sentinel-2 satellite imagery dataset providing high-resolution optical data for land monitoring, agriculture, and environmental applications. details → fashionlocaltriplets amazon.science computer vision machine learning fine-grained localized visual similarity and search for fashion. details → google books ngrams amazon.science natural language processing n-grams are fixed size tuples of items. in this case the items are words extracted from the google books corpus. the n specifies the number of elements in the tuple, so a 5-gram contains five words or characters. the n-grams in this dataset were produced by passing a sliding window of the text of books and outputting a record for each new token. details → mwis vr instances amazon.science graph traffic transportation large-scale node-weighted conflict graphs for maximum weight independent set solvers details → registry of open data on aws amazon.science json metadata the registry of open data on aws contains publicly available datasets that are available for access from aws resources. note that datasets in this registry are available via aws resources, but they are not provided by aws; these datasets are owned and maintained by a variety of government organizations, researchers, businesses, and individuals. this dataset contains derived forms of the data in https://github.com/awslabs/open-data-registry that have been transformed for ease of use with machine interfaces. curren... details → spatiam corporation national lab research announcement international space station technology demonstration network traffic telecommunications experiment data for the spatiam dtn network platform technology demonstration carried to test a delay and disruption tolerant network between the iss and earth. details → tsbench benchmark deep learning machine learning meta learning time series forecasting tsbench comprises thousands of benchmark evaluations for time series forecasting methods. it provides various metrics (i.e. measures of accuracy, latency, number of model parameters, ...) of 13 time series forecasting methods across 44 heterogeneous datasets. time series forecasting methods include both classical and deep learning methods while several hyperparameters settings are evaluated for the deep learning methods.in addition to the tabular data providing the metrics, tsbench includes the probabilistic forecasts of all evaluated methods for all 44 datasets. while the tabular data is smal... details → datasets and pre-built solutions | google cloud datasets enhance your analytics and ai initiatives with pre-built data solutions and valuable datasets powered by bigquery , cloud storage , earth engine , and other google cloud services. explore marketplace datasets start analytics hub free trial dataset: atlas of human settlements turkey and syria atlas ai, a leading provider of geospatial intelligence products, has released data layers covering turkey and syria. find in analytics hub. analytics hub generally available read our blog about how analytics hub enables efficient and secure exchange of valuable data and analytics assets across organizational boundaries. inside the public dataset onboarding pipeline check out our release notes for the latest updates and datasets onboarded using our public datasets pipeline repository. featured datasets category featured datasets sample use cases and insights google datasets google trends view the top 25 and top 25 rising queries from google trends from the past 30-days with this dataset. each term includes 5 years of historical data across the 210 designated market areas (dmas) in the us and now over 50 countries across the globe. what are the most popular retail items people have searched for across the area? google analytics (sample) the dataset provides 12 months (august 2016 to august 2017) of obfuscated google analytics 360 data from the google merchandise store to show what an ecommerce website would see, including traffic source, content, and transactional data. what is the total number of transactions generated per device browser? google patents research google patents research data contains the output of much of the data analysis work used in google