large differences, and while emissions are rapidly increasing in some countries, they are rapidly falling in others. the source for this co 2 data is the global carbon budget, a dataset we update yearly as soon as it is published. in addition to these production-based emissions, they publish consumption-based emissions for the last three decades, which can be viewed in our greenhouse gas emissions data explorer . explore the data explore the data gdp per capita long-run estimates from the maddison project database gdp per capita long-run estimates from the maddison project database gdp per capita long-run estimates from the maddison project database how do average incomes compare between countries around the world? gdp per capita is a very comprehensive measure of people’s average income . this indicator reveals how large the inequality between people in different countries is. in the poorest countries, people live on less than $1,000 per year, while in rich countries, the average income is more than 50 times higher. the data shown is sourced from the maddison project database. drawing together the careful work of hundreds of economic historians, the particular value of this data lies in the historical coverage it provides. this data makes clear that the vast majority of people in all countries were poor in the past. it allows us to understand when and how the economic growth that made it possible to leave the deep poverty of the past behind was achieved. explore the data explore the data share of people who are undernourished un fao share of people who are undernourished un fao share of people who are undernourished un fao what share of the population is suffering from hunger? hunger has been a severe problem for most of humanity throughout history. growing enough food to feed one’s family was a constant struggle in daily life. food shortages, malnutrition, and famines were common around the world. the un’s food and agriculture organization publishes global data on undernourishment, defined as not consuming enough calories to maintain a normal, active, healthy life. these minimum requirements vary by a person’s sex, weight, height, and activity levels. this is considered in these national and global estimates. the world has made much progress in reducing global hunger in recent decades. but we are still far away from an end to hunger, as this indicator shows. tragically, nearly one in ten people still do not get enough food to eat and in recent years — especially during the pandemic — hunger levels have increased. explore the data explore the data literacy rate long-run estimates collated from multiple sources by our world in data literacy rate long-run estimates collated from multiple sources by our world in data literacy rate long-run estimates collated from multiple sources by our world in data when has literacy become a widespread skill? literacy is a foundational skill. children need to learn to read so that they can read to learn. when we fail to teach this foundational skill, people have fewer opportunities to lead the rich and interesting lives that a good education offers. the historical data shows that only a very small share of the population, a tiny elite, was able to read and write. over the course of the last few generations, literacy levels increased, but it remains an important challenge for our time to provide this foundational skill to all. at our world in data, we investigated the strengths and shortcomings of the available data on literacy. based on this work, our team brought together the long-run data shown in the chart by combining several different sources, including the world bank, the cia factbook, and a range of research publications. explore the data explore the data share of the population with access to electricity world bank share of the population with access to electricity world bank share of the population with access to electricity world bank where do people lack access to even the most basic electricity supply? light at night makes it possible to get together after sunset; mobile phones allow us to stay in touch with those far away; the refrigeration of food reduces food waste; and household appliances free up time from household chores. access to electricity improves people’s living conditions in many ways. the world bank data on the world map captures whether people have access to the most basic electricity supply — just enough to provide basic lighting and charge a phone or power a radio for 4 hours per day. it shows that, especially in several african countries, a large share of the population lacks the benefits that basic electricity offers. no radio and no light at night. explore the data explore the data data explorers see all our data explorers interactive visualization tools to explore a wide range of related indicators. poverty data explorer population & demography data explorer global health data explorer energy data explorer all our topics all our data, research, and writing — topic by topic. population and demographic change population change : population growth age structure gender ratio births & deaths : life expectancy fertility rate child & infant mortality geography of the world population : urbanization migration health life & death : global health causes of death child & infant mortality burden of disease life expectancy mental health suicides cardiovascular diseases cancer maternal mortality health risks : air pollution outdoor air pollution indoor air pollution lead pollution alcohol consumption illicit drug use obesity smoking infectious diseases : pandemics covid-19 malaria hiv/aids diarrheal diseases tuberculosis polio neglected tropical diseases influenza pneumonia tetanus mpox (monkeypox) smallpox health institutions & interventions : eradication of diseases vaccination antibiotics & antibiotic resistance healthcare spending energy and environment climate & air : climate change co2 & greenhouse gas emissions air pollution outdoor air pollution indoor air pollution ozone layer energy systems : energy access to energy energy mix fossil fuels nuclear energy renewable energy metals & minerals environment & ecosystems : natural disasters biodiversity environmental impacts of food production fish & overfishing animal