any aodn dataset by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → ocean radar - coffs harbour site - wind - delayed mode meteorological ocean currents oceans the coffs harbour (cof) hf ocean radar site is located near the point at which the east australian current (eac) begins to separate from the coast. here the eac is at its narrowest and swiftest: to the north it is forming from the westwards subtropical jet, and to the south it forms eddies and eventually the warm water moves eastwards across the tasman sea, forming a front with the cold water of the southern ocean. the connection between coastal and continental shelf waters is fundamental to the understanding of the anthropogenic impact on the coastal ocean and the role of the ocean in mitig... details → usage examples accessing imos - acorn - coffs harbour hf ocean radar site (new south wales, australia) - delayed mode wind by laurent besnard accessing and search for any aodn dataset by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → ocean radar - coral coast site - sea water velocity - delayed mode ocean currents ocean velocity oceans the coral coast (corl) hf ocean radar system covers an area of the western australia coast, western australia, an area subject to the variability of the leeuwin current (lc) and its coupling with coastal winds, tides, and waves. in this area the lc generates several eddies which control the larval species and the higher marine species and ecosystems in which they forage.the corl hf ocean radar system consists of two seasonde crossed loop direction finding stations located at dongara (29.283 s 114.920e) and green head (114.967 e 30.073 s). these radars operate at a frequency of 4.463 mhz, with... details → usage examples accessing and search for any aodn dataset by laurent besnard accessing imos - acorn - coral coast hf ocean radar site (western australia, australia) - delayed mode sea water velocity by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → ocean radar - northwest shelf site - sea water velocity - delayed mode ocean currents ocean velocity oceans the northwest shelf (nwa) hf ocean radar system covers an area which includes the ningaloo peninsula and the ningaloo reef to the west. the ningaloo reef is one of the longest and most pristine reefs in the world. the reef is rich in marine biodiversity, with shark whales, turtles and fish aggregations, and high primary and secondary productions which are controlled by the physical oceanographic processes. the nwa hf ocean radar is a wera phased array system with 12-element receive arrays located at the jurabi turtle centre (21.8068 s, 114.1015 e) and point billie (22.5432 s, 113.690 e). th... details → usage examples accessing imos - acorn - northwest shelf hf ocean radar site (western australia, australia) - delayed mode sea water velocity by laurent besnard accessing and search for any aodn dataset by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → ocean radar - rottnest shelf site - sea water velocity - delayed mode ocean currents ocean velocity oceans the rottnest shelf (rot) hf ocean radar system covers an area which includes rottnest island and the perth canyon to the north-west. the perth canyon has the highest marine biodiversity in the region with whale and fish aggregations, and high primary and secondary productions which are controlled by the physical oceanographic processes. combined with the dynamics of the perth canyon is the dominant leeuwin current which produces a wake on the leeward side of rottnest island. this is a topographically induced up-welling and associated primary and secondary productivity. the region is influ... details → usage examples accessing and search for any aodn dataset by laurent besnard accessing imos - acorn - rottnest shelf hf ocean radar site (western australia, australia) - delayed mode sea water velocity by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → ocean radar - rottnest shelf site - wave - delayed mode ocean currents oceans the rottnest shelf (rot) hf ocean radar system covers an area which includes rottnest island and the perth canyon to the north-west. the perth canyon has the highest marine biodiversity in the region with whale and fish aggregations, and high primary and secondary productions which are controlled by the physical oceanographic processes. combined with the dynamics of the perth canyon is the dominant leeuwin current which produces a wake on the leeward side of rottnest island. this is a topographically induced up-welling and associated primary and secondary productivity. the region is influ... details → usage examples accessing and search for any aodn dataset by laurent besnard accessing imos - acorn - rottnest shelf hf ocean radar site (western australia, australia) - delayed mode wave by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → ocean radar - rottnest shelf site - wind - delayed mode meteorological ocean currents oceans the rottnest shelf (rot) hf ocean radar system covers an area which includes rottnest island and the perth canyon to the north-west. the perth canyon has the highest marine biodiversity in the region with whale and fish aggregations, and high primary and secondary productions which are controlled by the physical oceanographic processes. combined with the dynamics of the perth canyon is the dominant leeuwin current which produces a wake on the leeward side of rottnest island. this is a topographically induced up-welling and associated primary and secondary productivity. the region is influ... details → usage examples accessing and search for any aodn dataset by laurent besnard accessing imos - acorn - rottnest shelf hf ocean radar site (western australia, australia) - delayed mode wind by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → ocean radar - south australian gulfs site - sea water velocity - delayed mode ocean currents ocean velocity oceans the south australia gulfs (sag) hf ocean radar system covers the area of about 40,000 square kilometres bounded by kangaroo island to the east and the eyre peninsula to the north. this is a dynamic region where warm water from the remnants of the leeuwin current is