min read the overview effect: astronaut perspectives from 25 years in low earth orbit article 5 days ago highlights 3 min read pódcast en español de la nasa estrena su tercera temporada article 5 months ago 5 min read las carreras en la nasa despegan con las pasantías article 7 months ago 4 min read el x-59 de la nasa completa las pruebas electromagnéticas article 9 months ago ocio ocio ocio home about the ocio it talk nasa it strategic plan nasa records management accessibility at nasa strategy division cybersecurity and privacy division cspd home privacy program cybersecurity policies supply chain risk management vulnerability disclosure policy operations division nasa evidence-based policymaking act about nasa evidence-based policymaking act evidence act officials chief data officer david salvagnini david.r.salvagnini@nasa.gov 202.358.2373 evaluation officer jim worm james.a.worm@nasa.gov 202.358.0820 statistical official chris andall christopher.m.andall@nasa.gov 202.358.5127 information technology strategy board board charter other links this is a reference page for links to material provided by the nasa data portal and other open-source information provided by nasa. nasa data strategy nasa open data plan nasa’s chief data officer (cdo) is the point of contact. email support requests go to hq-open-innovation@mail.nasa.gov nasa data portal nasa digital strategy metadata of all public datasets listed in the data.nasa.gov open data catalog as a json file (note: this can take several minutes to download) nasa data sites 2021 nasa geospatial data strategy national aeronautics and space administration nasa explores the unknown in air and space, innovates for the benefit of humanity, and inspires the world through discovery. about nasa's mission join us home news & events multimedia nasa+ missions humans in space earth the solar system the universe science aeronautics technology learning resources about nasa nasa en español (opens in new tab) follow nasa more nasa social accounts nasa newsletters sitemap for media privacy policy foia no fear act office of the ig (opens in new tab) budget & annual reports agency financial reports contact nasa accessibility page last updated: jul 24, 2025 page editor: michael p. porterfield responsible nasa official: abigail bowman was this page helpful? was this page helpful? yes no × welcome - nasa open data portal skip to main content nasa open data portal datasets about search want nasa data? check out our data catalog below or you can read about other open-government websites further down the page. data catalog data.nasa.gov: a catalog of publicly available nasa datasets what is data.nasa.gov? data.nasa.gov is nasa’s publicly available metadata repository, hosting diverse datasets related to science, space exploration, aeronautics, and more. making nasa’s metadata publicly accessible, in compliance with the open government data act, fosters transparency, collaboration, and scientific advancement. most dataset pages only house metadata for each dataset. typically, actual data is hosted on other nasa archive sites but now data.nasa.gov will have that metadata and the links to data that exists in other locations. who benefits? data.nasa.gov individuals searching information about open datasets for science, development, research, education, or space enthusiasts. anyone passionate about space, science, or data-driven exploration. nasa personnel seeking to support compliance with the open government data act do you want to upload new nasa datasets? what is the nasa open data publishing service? this service allows nasa personnel to store public, authoritative, authoritative datasets in the cloud while automatically cataloging, minting digital object identifiers, and applying data governance best practices to hosted datasets. any interested parties, internal or external to nasa, can download data from data.nasa.gov. who benefits? nasa personnel seeking a secure method to store and manage public datasets. data stewards looking to ensure their datasets follow best practices. nasa personnel who make data openly available ensuring governance. why use these services? open access to scientific data: nasa is committed to the principle of open data; therefore, its vast collection of scientific data publicly available. this empowers researchers, scientists, educators, and the public to access and utilize this information. advancing scientific research: by providing open access to its data, nasa facilitates and accelerates scientific discovery. researchers worldwide can use nasa's data to conduct studies, analyze trends, and develop new theories. enabling educational opportunities: nasa's data portal offers generous educational resources for students and educators. teachers can use nasa's data to create engaging lessons, and students can explore real-world scientific data. driving innovation and technological development: nasa's data has led to numerous technological advancements and innovations. companies and entrepreneurs use nasa's data to develop new products and services, contributing to economic growth. monitoring earth and space: nasa's data is essential for monitoring earth, weather patterns, and natural disasters and crucial understanding of the universe and exploring space. promoting transparency and public engagement: data.nasa.gov promotes nasa’s transparency and accountability and engages the public in scientific exploration and discovery. for nasa-only new open dataset requests, submit a managed data hosting request in the idas service intake portal for all other support requests, please send the nasa data support team an email. what type of data is available on data.nasa.gov? there are thousands of public datasets on data.nasa.gov. to give the public a better understanding of the different types of datasets available, a data visualization page has been created entirely dedicated to helping our users gain a better understanding as to what kind of data they can expect to find. visit visualization page open dataset resources tied to data.nasa.gov nasa datasets are available through a number of different websites, not just data.nasa.gov. information, data & analytics services(idas) program data.nasa.gov is the dataset-focused site of nasa's ocio (office of the chief information officer) information, data & analytics services(idas) program. there are also api.nasa.gov and code.nasa.gov for apis and code respectively. information, data & analytics services(idas) sites code.nasa.gov a page that contains information on links to all open-sourced nasa code projects. api.nasa.gov a clearinghouse site for information about nasa apis. acts a passthrough site to nasa apis elsewhere. request a key and get to work! data.nasa.gov(this site) nasa's central open-data site for the public. aggregates data from different archives and datasets not available anywhere else. other nasa data sites