was performe... details → usage examples new microbe genomic variants in patients fecal community following surgical disruption of the upper human gastrointestinal tract by ranjit kumar, jayleen grams, daniel i. chu, david k.crossman, richard stahl, peter eipers, et al the human microbiome project by peter j. turnbaugh, ruth e. ley, micah hamady, claire m. fraser-liggett, rob knight & jeffrey i. gordon strains, functions and dynamics in the expanded human microbiome project by jason lloyd-price, anup mahurkar, gholamali rahnavard, jonathan crabtree, joshua orvis, a. brantley hall, et al. see 3 usage examples → ucsf renal mass ct dataset cancer computed tomography life sciences medical imaging medicine radiology this dataset provides a set of 831 3d multiphase ct exams of renal masses, registered across phases with annotations identifying the masses details → usage examples mask overlays by sule sahin label exploration tutorial by sule sahin ucsf renal mass ct dataset by peder larson see 3 usage examples → variant effect predictor (vep) and the loss-of-function transcript effect estimator (loftee) plugin genome wide association study genomic life sciences loftee vep vep determines the effect of genetic variants (snps, insertions, deletions, cnvs or structural variants) on genes, transcripts, and protein sequence, as well as regulatory regions. the european bioinformatics institute produces the vep tool/db and releases updates every 1 - 6 months. the latest release contains 267 genomes from 232 species containing 5567663 protein coding genes. this dataset hosts the last 5 releases for human, rat, and zebrafish. also, it hosts the required reference files for the loss-of-function transcript effect estimator (loftee) plugin as it is commonly used with vep. details → usage examples loss-of-function transcript effect estimator (loftee) by konrad karczewski variant effect predictor (vep) by ensembl hail by neale lab see 3 usage examples → wis2 global cache on aws atmosphere climate earth observation forecast geoscience hydrology meteorological model oceans weather global real-time earth system data deemed by the world meteorological organisation (wmo) as essential for provision of services for the protection of life and property and for the well-being of all nations. data is sourced from all wmo member countries / territories and retained for 24-hours. met office and noaa operate this global cache service curating and publishing the dataset on behalf of wmo. details → usage examples manual on the wmo information system (wmo-no. 1060), volume ii, wmo information system 2.0 by world meteorological organisation guide to the wmo information system (wmo-no. 1061), volume ii, wmo information system 2.0 by world meteorological organisation wis 2.0 video for 19th world meterological congress by wmo secretariat see 3 usage examples → wind ai bench benchmark energy machine learning this data lake contains multiple datasets related to fundamental problems in wind energy research. this includes data for wind plant power production for various layouts/wind flow scenarios, data for two- and three-dimensional flow around different wind turbine airfoils/blades, wind turbine noise production, among others. the purpose of these datasets is to establish a standard benchmark against which new ai/ml methods can be tested, compared, and deployed. details regarding the generation and formatting of the data for each dataset is included in the metadata as well as example noteboo... details → usage examples airfoil 9k by dakota ramos, andrew glaws wind ai bench floris playgen by dakota ramos, andrew glaws airfoil 2k by dakota ramos, andrew glaws see 3 usage examples → 1000 genomes fastq genetic genomic life sciences whole genome sequencing the 1000 genomes project is an international collaboration which has established the most detailed catalogue of human genetic variation, including snps, structural variants, and their haplotype context. the final phase of the project sequenced more than 2500 individuals from 26 different populations around the world and produced an integrated set of phased haplotypes with more than 80 million variants for these individuals. details → usage examples exploratory data analysis of genomic datasets using adam and mango with apache spark on amazon emr by alyssa marrow examine genomic variation across populations with aws by konstantinos tzouvanas see 2 usage examples → 1940 census population schedules, enumeration district maps, and enumeration district descriptions 1940 census archives census demography nara the 1940 census population schedules were created by the bureau of the census in an attempt to enumerate every person living in the united states on april 1, 1940, although some persons were missed. the 1940 census population schedules were digitized by the national archives and records administration (nara) and released publicly on april 2, 2012. the 1940 census enumeration district maps contain maps of counties, cities, and other minor civil divisions that show enumeration districts, census tracts, and related boundaries and numbers used for each census. the coverage is nation wide and inclu... details → usage examples 1940 census on the aws registry of open data by national archives and records administration national archives 1940 census by national archives and records administration see 2 usage examples → 1950 census population schedules, enumeration district maps, and enumeration district descriptions 1950 census archives census demography nara the 1950 census population schedules were created by the bureau of the census in an attempt to enumerate every person living in the united states on april 1, 1950, although some persons were missed. the 1950 census population schedules were digitized by the national archives and records administration (nara) and released publicly on april 1, 2022. the 1950 census enumeration district maps contain maps of counties, cities, and other minor civil divisions that show enumeration districts, census tracts, and related boundaries and numbers used for each census. the coverage is nation wide and inclu... details → usage examples national archives 1950 census by national archives and records administration 1950 census on the aws registry of open data by national archives and records administration see 2 usage examples → 2010 census production settings redistricting data (p.l. 94-171) demonstration noisy measurement file census differential privacy disclosure avoidance ethnicity group quarters hispanic housing housing units latino noisy measurements population race redistricting voting age the 2010 census production settings redistricting data (p.l. 94-171) demonstration noisy