over the australasian domain (70e to 190e, 70s to 20n) based on retrievals from the ahi imager on board himawari-8 satellite. the bureau of meteorology (bureau) produces integrated marine observing system (imos) satellite sst products in the international group for high resolution sst (ghrsst) gds2 file formats for himawari-8 in real time and delayed mode. this product is composed of reprocessed multi-swath sstskin retrievals obtained from compositing imos himawari-8 hourly l3c files over the night (before dawn). every 10 minutes, the himawari-8 full disk is processed to retrieve ssts by using the radiative transfer model (rttov12.3) and bayesian cloud clearing method based on the esa cci sst code developed at the university of reading. the hourly product on native grid is then produced by compositing over multiple swaths for the previous 1 hour. further, l3c-01day sst fields on native grid are obtained by selecting the highest quality data from the hourly sst records with priority being given to the value the closest in time to the product nominal hour. the l3c-1day night product on native grid is th... details → usage examples accessing imos - srs - sst - l3c - himawari-8 - 1 day - night time - australia by laurent besnard accessing and search for any aodn dataset by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → satellite - sea surface temperature - level 4 - multi sensor - global australian oceans satellite imagery an international group for high-resolution sea surface temperature (ghrsst) level 4 sea surface temperature analysis, produced daily on an operational basis at the australian bureau of meteorology using optimal interpolation (oi) on a global 0.25 degree grid. this global australian multi-sensor sst analysis (gamssa) v1.0 system blends infra-red sst observations from the advanced very high resolution radiometer (avhrr) on noaa and metop polar-orbiting satellites, microwave sst observations from the advanced microwave scanning radiometer-2 (amsr-2) on gcom-w, and in situ data from ships, and dr... details → usage examples accessing imos - srs - sst - l4 - gamssa - world by laurent besnard accessing and search for any aodn dataset by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → satellite - sea surface temperature - level 4 - multi sensor - regional australian oceans satellite imagery an international group for high resolution sea surface temperature (ghrsst) level 4 sea surface temperature analysis, produced daily on an operational basis at the australian bureau of meteorology using optimal interpolation (oi) on a regional 1/12 degree grid over the australian region (20n - 70s, 60e - 170w). this regional australian multi-sensor sst analysis (ramssa) v1.0 system blends infra-red sst observations from the advanced very high resolution radiometer (avhrr) on noaa and metop polar-orbiting satellites, microwave sst observations from the advanced microwave scanning radiometer-2 (... details → usage examples accessing imos - srs - sst - l4 - ramssa - australia by laurent besnard accessing and search for any aodn dataset by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → sentinel-1 mean and median annual mosaic climate earth observation environmental geoscience geospatial sentinel-1 carries a synthetic aperture radar (sar) that operates on the c-band. this platform offers sar data day and night and in all-weather conditions. details → usage examples digital earth pacific open data access documentation by digitalearthpacific digital earth pacific map by digital earth pacific contributors see 2 usage examples → sentinel-1 precise orbit determination (pod) products auxiliary data disaster response earth observation earthquakes floods geophysics sentinel-1 synthetic aperture radar sentinel-1 precise orbit determination (pod) products contain auxiliary data on satellite position and velocity for the european space agency's (esa) sentinel-1 mission. sentinel-1 is a c-band synthetic aperture radar (sar) satellite constellation first launched in 2014 as part of the european union's copernicus earth observation programme. pod products are a necessary auxiliary input for nearly all sentinel-1 data processing workflows. this dataset is a mirror of the sentinel-1 orbits dataset hosted in the copernicus data space ecosystem (cdse). new files are added within 20 minutes of their publication to cdse. this dataset includes two types of pod files: resorb and poeorb. resorb pod files are restituted orbit files generated within 180 minutes from sensing time and published multiple times per day, with accuracy requirement of 10 cm in 2d rms, but typically below 5 cm. resorb products from the last 90 days are included in this dataset. poeorb pod files are precise orbit files generated with a timeliness of 20 days from sensing time ... details → usage examples s1-orbits, a python utility for downloading sentinel-1 orbit files from the registry of open data on aws by alaska satellite facility rest api for downloading sentinel-1 orbit files from the registry of open data on aws by alaska satellite facility see 2 usage examples → sentinel-2 geometric median and absolute deviations (geomad) over the pacific earth observation geoscience geospatial the geometric median and absolute deviations (geomad) product is a cloud-free annual mosaic that uses a more robust method of determining the median observation than a simple median. along with the median observation, the geomad produces three measures of variance, or absolute deviations, which helps to understand how the data over the time period changes. for example, some areas, such as desert, will change very little. whereas crop land will change more. all ofthese values are useful in understand what is happening in the area covered by the geomad. details → usage examples digital earth pacific map by digital earth pacific contributors digital earth pacific open data access documentation by digitalearthpacific see 2 usage examples → ships of opportunity - air-sea fluxes - meteorological and flux - delayed mode air temperature atmosphere meteorological oceans radiation enhancement of measurements on ships of opportunity (soop)-air sea flux sub-facility collects underway meteorological and oceanographic observations during scientific and antarctic resupply voyages in the oceans adjacent to australia. data product is quality controlled bulk air-sea fluxes and input observations. research vessel real time air-sea fluxes, equips the marine national facility (mnf) (research vessels southern surveyor and investigator), the australian antarctic division (research and supply vessels