direct download of netcdf-4 data, the ges disc provides data download in binary, ascii, and netcdf-3 formats using the opendap interface. similarities with the original as in the original binaries, every netcdf-4 file covers one hour, and contains two half-hourly grids, at 4-km grid cell resolution. differences from the original the data in the netcdf-4 files are already converted to real (float) values of brightness temperatures in kelvin. there is no need to further scale these data. the netcdf-4 format is machine-independent and users need not worry about the endian-ness of their machines. to meet the requirements of collection spatial metadata, the grid is re-ordered from the original and now goes from -180 (west) to 180 (east). it is also starting from -60 (south). the data and time units are reflected in the corresponding "units" attributes, and grid dimensions are described by longitude ("lon"), latitude ("lat") and "time" vectors. thus, any cf-compliant tool should automatically understand the setup in the data files and the starting time for each half-hourly grid. even without such tools, simple "ncdump" or "h5dump" command line tools will easily disclose the netcdf-4 files configuration. acknowledgements the creation of the original data at noaa/ncep is supported by funding from the noaa office of global programs for the... details → usage examples how to access ges disc data using python by james acker, jerome alfred, helen amos, chris battisto, thomas hearty, alexis hunzinger, lena iredell, christoph keller, binita kc, carlee loeser, ariana louise, kristan morgan, dieu my t. nguyen, dana ostrenga, xiaohua pan, kanan patel, brianna r. pagã¡n, andrey savtchenko, elliot sherman, suhung shen, jian su,joseph wysk, rupesh shrestha. see 1 usage example → neowise post-cryo data | wide-field infrared survey explorer (wise) astronomy imaging satellite imagery survey the wide-field infrared survey explorer (wise) was a nasa medium explorer satellite in low-earth orbit that conducted an all-sky astronomical imaging survey over four infrared bands from 2010-2011. the neowise post-cryo data release contains 3.4 and 4.6 micron (w1 and w2) imaging data that were acquired between 29 september 2010 and 1 february 2011 following the exhaustion of the inner and outer cryogen tanks. details → usage examples notebook tutorials by caltech/ipac-irsa see 1 usage example → neowise reactivation data | near-earth object wide-field infrared survey explorer (neowise) astronomy imaging object detection parquet satellite imagery survey the near-earth object wide-field infrared survey explorer (neowise) is a nasa medium-class explorer satellite in low-earth orbit conducting an all-sky astronomical imaging survey over two infrared bands. the neowise reactivation mission began in 2013 when the original wise satellite was brought out of hibernation to learn more about the population of near-earth objects and comets that could pose an impact hazard to the earth. the data is also used to study a wide range of astrophysical phenomena in the time domain including brown dwarfs, supernovae and active galactic nuclei. details → usage examples notebook tutorials by caltech/ipac-irsa see 1 usage example → noaa coastal lidar data climate disaster response elevation geospatial lidar stac lidar (light detection and ranging) is a technology that can measure the 3-dimentional location of objects, including the solid earth surface. the data consists of a point cloud of the positions of solid objects that reflected a laser pulse, typically from an airborne platform. in addition to the position, each point may also be attributed by the type of object it reflected from, the intensity of the reflection, and other system dependent metadata. the noaa coastal lidar data is a collection of lidar projects from many different sources and agencies, geographically focused on the coastal areas of the united states of america. the data is provided in entwine point tiles (ept; https://entwine.io ) format, which is a lossless streamable octree of the point cloud, and in laz format. datasets are maintained in their original projects and care should be taken when merging projects. the coordinate reference system for the data is the nad83(2011) utm zone appropriate for the center of each data set for ept and geographic coordinates for laz. vertically they are in the orthometric datum appropriate for that area (for example, navd88 in the mainland united states, prvd02 in puerto rico, or guvd03 in guam). the geoid model used is reflected in the data set resource name. the ... details → usage examples opentopography access and processing of noaa coastal lidar data by opentopography see 1 usage example → noaa global surface summary of day agriculture climate environmental natural resource regulatory weather global surface summary of the day is derived from the integrated surface hourly (ish) dataset. the ish dataset includes global data obtained from the usaf climatology center, located in the federal climate complex with ncdc. the latest daily summary data are normally available 1-2 days after the date-time of the observations used in the daily summaries. the online data files begin with 1929 and are at the time of this writing at the version 8 software level. over 9000 stations' data are typically available. the daily elements included in the dataset (as available from each station) are: mean temperature (.1 fahrenheit) mean dew point (.1 fahrenheit) mean sea level pressure (.1 mb) mean station pressure (.1 mb) mean visibility (.1 miles) mean wind speed (.1 knots) maximum sustained wind speed (.1 knots) maximum wind gust (.1 knots) maximum temperature (.1 fahrenheit) minimum temperature (.1 fahrenheit) precipitation amount (.01 inches) snow depth (.1 inches) indicator for occurrence of: fog, rain or drizzle, snow or ice pellets, hail, thunder, tornado/funnel cloud. g ... details → usage examples ml demo: predicting air quality w/ asdi noaa + openaq datasets in sagemaker studio lab (smsl) by aaron soto see 1 usage example → noaa hysplit-compatible meteorological data archives agriculture climate disaster response environmental meteorological weather the hysplit model is a complete system for computing simple air parcel trajectories, as well as complex transport, dispersion, chemical transformation, and deposition simulations. hysplit continues to be one of the most extensively used atmospheric transport and dispersion models in the atmospheric sciences community. a common