science what is open science? open science publishing > research journals > publication metrics > publication fees open science practice > research by plos open science policy > dora libraries institutional sales supporting researchers institutional agreements our partners terms of service faqs community editors and reviewers authors > cancer > digital health > impacts of hazards > smart cities announcements plos responds to pnas study plos’s response to us executive orders an exciting new era gates foundation partnership redefining publishing plos pledge blogs press media inquiries embargo policy author media toolkit guidelines careers why join plos? search: menu plos is a non-profit organization on a mission to drive open science forward with measurable, meaningful change in research publishing, policy, and practice. building on a strong legacy of pioneering innovation, plos continues to be a catalyst, reimagining models to meet open science principles, removing barriers and promoting inclusion in knowledge creation and sharing, and publishing research outputs that enable everyone to learn from, reuse and build upon scientific knowledge. we believe in a better future where science is open to all, for all. journals plos aging and health plos biology plos climate plos complex systems plos computational biology plos digital health plos ecosystems plos genetics plos global public health plos medicine plos mental health plos neglected tropical diseases plos one plos pathogens plos sustainability and transformation plos water more content plos blogs plos collections we believe in a better future where science is open to all, for all plos is a non-profit organization on a mission to drive open science forward with measurable, meaningful change in research publishing, policy and practice. a catalyst for better built on a strong legacy of pioneering innovation, we see the world through a lens of possibility, but we are not interested in change for the sake of change. we believe in better . we exist to serve the research enterprise which means our priorities are based on the needs of scholars, librarians, funders, and institutional leaders, not shareholders. our vision and mission is at the center of our new brand identity. find out more open science plos is a mission-driven open science publisher covering all scientific disciplines with a focus on fundamental and applied research across life, health, sustainability, engineering, and technology. w hen you choose a plos journal you are putting integrity first and supporting an organization committed to research that is robust, reliable, and accessible to all. w e offer processes to ensure the science is rigorous, practices to make sure research is shared and reused, policies that are equitable, and innovations in scholarly communications. open science publishing pave the way when it comes to scientific rigor and editorial integrity, we will not compromise. the research outputs we publish promote multi-disciplinary discussions on complex problems and enable all stakeholders to learn from, reuse, and build upon scientific knowledge. we reimagine models and mechanisms for sharing to meet open science principles and use our journals to test and refine innovations at all stages of the research lifecycle. open science policy advocate for change we actively engage in policy discussions with multi-stakeholder groups to drive open science adoption. publishing expertise, pioneering innovations, and original research mean we are uniquely placed to contribute to discussions on the barriers to adoption and the opportunities for integration of open science principles in scholarly communication open science practice share and inspire we work with diverse communities to promote adoption of open science practices across discipline, geography, and career stage. to create new pathways to open science, we actively engage with stakeholders throughout the scholarly community with knowledge sharing, co-creation, and partnership read more > about us > our journals > institutional sales > career opportunities > media engagement bluesky facebook linkedin plos is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation, #c2354500, and is based in california, us connect contact blogs advertise finance financial overview pay invoice payment terms and conditions legal privacy policy cookie policy terms of use accessibility sign up back to top plos one skip to main content advertisement plos one publish submissions getting started submission guidelines figures tables supporting information latex what we publish preprints revising your manuscript submit now calls for papers policies best practices in research reporting human subjects research animal research competing interests disclosure of funding sources licenses and copyright data availability complementary research materials, software and code sharing ethical publishing practice authorship corrections, expressions of concern, and retractions manuscript review and publication criteria for publication editorial and peer review process editor center resources for editors guidelines for reviewers accepted manuscripts comments submit your manuscript discover a faster, simpler path to publishing in a high-quality journal. plos one promises fair, rigorous peer review, broad scope, and wide readership – a perfect fit for your research every time. learn more submit now about why publish with plos one journal information staff editors editorial board section editors advisory groups find and read articles publishing information publication fees press and media contact browse search search advanced search browse subject areas ? click through the plos taxonomy to find articles in your field. for more information about plos subject areas, click here . february 11, 2025 we believe in a better future where science is open to all, for all. image credit: plos one 09/24/2025 mental health & aging reclaiming wellness: key factors in restoring optimal well-being in the canadian longitudinal study on aging ho and fuller-thompson examine the factors associated with improvements in physical and mental wellness in old ager adults, finding that social connection and psychological health are associated with regaining optimal wellness in later life. image credit: human seniors by congerdesign, pixabay 09/17/2025 veterinary more than just one man and his dog: the many impacts of puppy acquisition on the mental health of families including children in the uk belshaw and colleagues examine the benefits and challenges of dog ownership on both the primary caregiver and children following an increase in dog ownership during the covid-19 pandemic, where new puppy owners hoped this would improve their mental