intimate partner. continue reading november 17 growth of global gdp per capita has been remarkably steady over the past three decades this chart shows global gdp per capita, adjusted for inflation. looking at the world economy from this perspective, it is the steadiness of this change that stands out to me. average incomes per person have risen at a fairly constant pace of roughly 2% per year, interrupted only by the 2008–09 financial crisis and the 2020 pandemic. one reason this is noteworthy, in my view, is that national economies changed a lot during the same period. some economies slowed, many others grew , and more generally, some major political shifts took place. yet when all of this is aggregated, the global average followed a remarkably smooth upward track. the line in the chart ends in 2024, so it does not yet capture more recent developments. but a few recent articles, such as this one from the economist , look at data for 2025 and point to the same stability. past trends may not continue in the future. but this data reminds us that global economic aggregates can develop more steadily than the headlines might make us think. read more about what economic growth is and why it is important. continue reading november 15 how much co2 can the world emit while limiting global temperature rise? in 2015, countries worldwide signed the paris agreement , aiming to keep the global temperature rise “well below 2°c” and limit this increase to 1.5°c. to meet these targets, there are limits to the amount of carbon dioxide (co 2 ) that can be emitted. these are called carbon budgets . every year we emit more co 2 , these budgets shrink. (that’s because total warming is roughly proportional to cumulative co 2 .) in the chart, you can see estimates for how much co 2 the world can emit — from the start of next year — while staying below different levels of warming. this is based on having a 50% likelihood of staying below it; if we wanted to guarantee that we didn’t pass these temperatures, our budget would be much smaller. to get a sense of perspective, we’ve compared each budget with the projected amount of co 2 that the world is expected to emit in 2025. this tells us how many years we have left if emissions stay at their current levels. at current emission rates, the 1.5°c budget would run out around 2030. it seems implausible that global emissions will fall quickly enough to avoid this. the 2°c budget would last until mid-century. by taking action on climate change, we buy ourselves more time and can avoid this level of warming. this is based on the latest estimates from the global carbon project. see how emissions are changing in your country. continue reading november 13 global co2 emissions from fossil fuels are likely to increase this year, while those from land-use change will fall have global carbon dioxide (co 2 ) emissions gone up or down this year? the latest projections from the global carbon project give us some insight. their researchers and analysts do invaluable work in estimating greenhouse gas emissions worldwide, helping us understand how the situation is evolving. today, they published their latest “carbon budget”. the chart shows their historical estimates, as well as their projections for 2025. they project that this year, emissions from fossil sources — that is, from fossil fuels and industrial processes — will increase by around 1%. emissions from all three fuels — coal, oil, and gas — are expected to increase. meanwhile, emissions from land-use change have decreased due to fewer extreme wildfires and reduced deforestation in south america. this reduction in land use may offset the increase from fossil fuels, resulting in a global total similar to last year. note that estimates for land-use emissions are much less certain than for fossil fuels. while many countries have made progress in reducing emissions, global fossil emissions continue to rise. to tackle climate change, they need to peak and rapidly decrease in the coming years and decades. this is based on the latest estimates from the global carbon project. explore how global and national emissions are changing. continue reading explore our data featured data from our collection of 13,794 interactive charts. see all our data child mortality rate long-run estimates combining data from un & gapminder child mortality rate long-run estimates combining data from un & gapminder what share of children die before their fifth birthday? what could be more tragic than the death of a young child? child mortality, the death of children under the age of five, is still extremely common in our world today. the historical data makes clear that it doesn’t have to be this way: it is possible for societies to protect their children and reduce child mortality to very low rates. for child mortality to reach low levels, many things have to go right at the same time: good healthcare , good nutrition , clean water and sanitation , maternal health , and high living standards . we can, therefore, think of child mortality as a proxy indicator of a country’s living conditions. the chart shows our long-run data on child mortality, which allows you to see how child mortality has changed in countries around the world. explore the data explore the data share of population living in extreme poverty world bank share of population living in extreme poverty world bank share of population living in extreme poverty world bank what share of the population lives in extreme poverty? the un sets the “international poverty line” as a worldwide comparable definition for extreme poverty. extreme poverty is currently defined as living on less than $3 per day. this indicator, published by the world bank, has successfully drawn attention to the terrible depths of poverty of the poorest people in the world. two centuries ago, the majority of the world’s population was extremely poor. back then,