publication by ibl data architecture working group see 7 usage examples → icgc on aws bam cancer genetic genomic life sciences vcf the international cancer genome consortium (icgc) coordinates projects with the common aim of accelerating research into the causes and control of cancer. the pancancer analysis of whole genomes (pcawg) study is an international collaboration to identify common patterns of mutation in whole genomes from icgc. more than 2,400 consistently analyzed genomes corresponding to over 1,100 unique icgc donors are now freely available on amazon s3 to credentialed researchers subject to icgc data sharing policies. details → usage examples genomic basis of rna alterations in cancer by pcawg transcriptome core group et al. (2020) analyses of non-coding somatic drivers in 2,693 cancer whole genomes by rheinbay et al (2020) pan-cancer analysis of whole genomes by the icgc/tcga pan-cancer analysis of whole genomes consortium (2020) aws pancancer workflow launcher by solomon shorser the repertoire of mutational signatures in human cancer by alexandrov et al (2020) see 7 usage examples → kyfromabove on aws aerial imagery cog disaster response dtm earth observation elevation geopackage geospatial lidar mapping stac tiff tiles the kyfromabove initiative is focused on building and maintaining a current basemap for kentucky that can meet the needs of its users at the state, federal, local, and regional level. a common basemap, including current color leaf-off aerial photography and elevation data (lidar), reduces the cost of developing gis applications, promotes data sharing, and add efficiencies to many business processes. all basemap data acquired through this effort is being made available in the public domain. kyfromabove acquires aerial imagery and lidar during leaf-off conditions in the commonwealth. the imagery... details → usage examples kyfromabove bulk download area of interest from tile index by ian horn kyfromabove is democratizing key data in kentucky by matt collins a new view of kentucky's cities by kent anness kentucky from above spatiotemporal asset catalog by ian horn, ky div. of geographic information kytopo! kentucky's new topographic map series by kent anness see 7 usage examples → materials project data chemistry cloud computing data assimilation digital assets digital preservation energy environmental free software genome hpc information retrieval infrastructure json machine learning materials science molecular dynamics molecule open source software physics post-processing x-ray crystallography materials project is an open database of computed materials properties aiming to accelerate materials science research. the resources in this opendata dataset contain the raw, parsed, and build data products. details → usage examples materials project data on aws opendata by materials project the materials project: a materials genome approach to accelerating materials innovation by jain a., ong s.p., hautier g., et al. mp api python client by materials project pymatgen by materials project atomate2 by materials project see 7 usage examples → noaa national water model conus retrospective dataset agriculture agriculture climate disaster response environmental transportation weather the noaa national water model retrospective dataset contains input and output from multi-decade conus retrospective simulations. these simulations used meteorological input fields from meteorological retrospective datasets. the output frequency and fields available in this historical nwm dataset differ from those contained in the real-time operational nwm forecast model. additionally, note that no streamflow or other data assimilation is performed within any of the nwm retrospective simulations one application of this dataset is to provide historical context to current near real-time streamflow, soil moisture and snowpack conditions. the retrospective data can be used to infer flow frequencies and perform temporal analyses with hourly streamflow output and 3-hourly land surface output. this dataset can also be used in the development of end user applications which require a long baseline of data for system training or verification purposes. ... details → usage examples explore the national water model v2.0 retrospective in zarr by rich signell simulating storm surge and compound flooding events with a creek-to-ocean model: importance of baroclinic effects by fei ye, et al. noaa's national water model: advancing operational hydrology through continental-scale modeling. by brian cosgrove, david gochis, trey flowers, aubrey dugger, fred ogden, tom graziano, ed clark, et al; 2024 on strictly enforced mass conservation constraints for modeling the rainfall-runoff process by jonathan m. frame, frederik kratzert, hoshin v. gupta, paul ullrich and grey s. nearing processing the 250 tb nwm dataset with coiled, dask, and xarray by sarah johnson (coiled) see 7 usage examples → openaq air quality cities environmental geospatial global, aggregated physical air quality data from public data sources provided by government, research-grade and other sources. these awesome groups do the hard work of measuring these data and publicly sharing them, and our community makes them more universally-accessible to both humans and machines. details → usage examples ropenaq r package by maã«lle salmon accessing data from the openaq archive by openaq smokey: air quality bot by amrit sharma openaq aggregator by kapil sreedharan openaq direct file access observablehq notebook by openaq see 7 usage examples → openaerialmap on aws aerial imagery cog disaster response earth observation satellite imagery openaerialmap is a collection of high-resolution openly licensed satellite and aerial imagery. details → usage examples oam user guide by humanitarian openstreetmap team mapping a response: using satellite images to aid humanitarian action by alnap openaerialmap: a distributed commons for searching and hosting free imagery by kate chapman, humanitarian openstreetmap team new openaerialmap browser by kontur analysing the use of openaerialmap images for openstreetmap edits. by mandourah, hochmair see 10 usage examples → scottish public sector lidar dataset cities coastal cog elevation environmental lidar urban this dataset is lidar data that has been collected by the scottish public sector and made available under the open government licence. the data are available as point cloud (las format or in laz compressed format), along with the derived digital terrain model (dtm) and digital surface model (dsm) products as cloud optimized geotiffs (cog) or standard geotiff. the dataset contains multiple subsets of data which were each commissioned and flown in response to different organisational requirements. the details of each can be found at https://remotesensingdata.gov.scot/data#/list details → usage