zhang , ming zhou , jing hou , yu qiao , yu liu view a pdf of the paper titled building open-ended embodied agent via language-policy bidirectional adaptation, by shaopeng zhai and 7 other authors view pdf html (experimental) abstract: building embodied agents on integrating large language models (llms) and reinforcement learning (rl) have revolutionized human-ai interaction: researchers can now leverage language instructions to plan decision-making for open-ended tasks. however, existing research faces challenges in meeting the requirement of open-endedness. they typically either train llm/rl models to adapt to a fixed counterpart, limiting exploration of novel skills and hindering the efficacy of human-ai interaction. to this end, we present openpal, a co-training framework comprising two stages: (1) fine-tuning a pre-trained llm to translate human instructions into goals for planning, and goal-conditioned training a policy for decision-making; (2) co-training to align the llm and policy, achieving instruction open-endedness. we conducted experiments using contra, an open-ended fps game, demonstrating that an agent trained with openpal not only comprehends arbitrary instructions but also exhibits efficient execution. these results suggest that openpal holds the potential to construct open-ended embodied agents in practical scenarios. subjects: artificial intelligence (cs.ai) cite as: arxiv:2401.00006 [cs.ai] (or arxiv:2401.00006v3 [cs.ai] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2401.00006 focus to learn more arxiv-issued doi via datacite submission history from: shaopeng zhai [ view email ] [v1] tue, 12 dec 2023 11:06:07 utc (8,033 kb) [v2] mon, 5 feb 2024 03:39:25 utc (20,754 kb) [v3] tue, 6 feb 2024 16:30:55 utc (22,814 kb) full-text links: access paper: view a pdf of the paper titled building open-ended embodied agent via language-policy bidirectional adaptation, by shaopeng zhai and 7 other authors view pdf html (experimental) tex source view license current browse context: cs.ai < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-01 change to browse by: cs references & citations nasa ads google scholar semantic scholar export bibtex citation loading... bibtex formatted citation × loading... data provided by: bookmark bibliographic tools bibliographic and citation tools bibliographic explorer toggle bibliographic explorer ( what is the explorer? ) connected papers toggle connected papers ( what is connected papers? ) litmaps toggle litmaps ( what is litmaps? ) scite.ai toggle scite smart citations ( what are smart citations? ) code, data, media code, data and media associated with this article alphaxiv toggle alphaxiv ( what is alphaxiv? ) links to code toggle catalyzex code finder for papers ( what is catalyzex? ) dagshub toggle dagshub ( what is dagshub? ) gotitpub toggle gotit.pub ( what is gotitpub? ) huggingface toggle hugging face ( what is huggingface? ) links to code toggle papers with code ( what is papers with code? ) sciencecast toggle sciencecast ( what is sciencecast? ) demos demos replicate toggle replicate ( what is replicate? ) spaces toggle hugging face spaces ( what is spaces? ) spaces toggle txyz.ai ( what is txyz.ai? ) related papers recommenders and search tools link to influence flower influence flower ( what are influence flowers? ) core recommender toggle core recommender ( what is core? ) author venue institution topic about arxivlabs arxivlabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arxivlabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arxiv features directly on our website. both individuals and organizations that work with arxivlabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arxiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. have an idea for a project that will add value for arxiv's community? learn more about arxivlabs . which authors of this paper are endorsers? | disable mathjax ( what is mathjax? ) about help contact arxiv click here to contact arxiv contact subscribe to arxiv mailings click here to subscribe subscribe copyright privacy policy web accessibility assistance arxiv operational status [2401.00007] modeling arousal potential of epistemic emotions using bayesian information gain: inquiry cycle driven by free energy fluctuations skip to main content we gratefully acknowledge support from the simons foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. donate > cs > arxiv:2401.00007 help | advanced search all fields title author abstract comments journal reference acm classification msc classification report number arxiv identifier doi orcid arxiv author id help pages full text search open search go open navigation menu quick links login help pages about computer science > artificial intelligence arxiv:2401.00007 (cs) [submitted on 14 dec 2023] title: modeling arousal potential of epistemic emotions using bayesian information gain: inquiry cycle driven by free energy fluctuations authors: hideyoshi yanagisawa , shimon honda view a pdf of the paper titled modeling arousal potential of epistemic emotions using bayesian information gain: inquiry cycle driven by free energy fluctuations, by hideyoshi yanagisawa and 1 other authors view pdf abstract: epistemic emotions, such as curiosity and interest, drive the inquiry process. this study proposes a novel formulation of epistemic emotions such as curiosity and interest using two types of information gain generated by the principle of free energy minimization: kullback-leibler divergence(kld) from bayesian posterior to prior, which represents free energy reduction in recognition, and bayesian surprise (bs), which represents the expected information gain by bayesian prior update. by applying a gaussian generative model with an additional uniform likelihood, we found that kld and bs form an upward-convex function of surprise (minimized free energy and prediction error), similar to berlyne's arousal potential functions, or the wundt curve. we consider that the alternate maximization of bs and kld generates an ideal inquiry cycle to approach the optimal arousal level with fluctuations in surprise, and that curiosity and interest drive to facilitate the cyclic process. we exhaustively analyzed the effects of prediction uncertainty (prior variance) and observation uncertainty (likelihood variance) on the peaks of the information gain function as optimal surprises. the results show that greater prediction uncertainty, meaning an open-minded attitude, and less observational uncertainty, meaning precise observation with attention, are expected to provide greater information gains through a greater range of exploration. the proposed mathematical framework unifies the free energy principle of the brain