following organisations contribute to the national wave archive: manly hydraulics laboratory (part of the nsw department of planning and environment (dpe), which has assumed function of the former nsw office of environment and heritage (oeh)); bureau of meteorology; western australia department of transport (dot); the queensland department of environment and science (des); the integrated marine observing system (imos); gippsland ports; the nsw nearshore wave data program from the nsw department of planning and environment (dpe); the un... details → usage examples accessing wave buoys observations - australia - near real-time by laurent besnard accessing and search for any aodn dataset by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → youtube 8 million - data lakehouse ready amazon.science computer vision labeled machine learning parquet video this both the original .tfrecords and a parquet representation of the youtube 8 million dataset . youtube-8m is a large-scale labeled video dataset that consists of millions of youtube video ids, with high-quality machine-generated annotations from a diverse vocabulary of 3,800+ visual entities. it comes with precomputed audio-visual features from billions of frames and audio segments, designed to fit on a single hard disk. this dataset also includes the youtube-8m segments data from june 2019. this dataset is 'lakehouse ready'. meaning, you can query this data in-place straight out of... details → usage examples data lake as code deployment guide by aws industry blueprints team youtube 8 million by google research see 2 usage examples → 1kg-ont-vienna panel fast5 fastq genetic genomic life sciences whole genome sequencing the 1kg-ont-vienna panel comprises medium coverage ont sequencing data for 1.019 samples from the 1000 genomes project collection, structural variants, and their haplotype context. details → usage examples long-read sequencing and structural variant characterization in 1,019 samples from the 1000 genomes project by siegfried schloissnig, samarendra pani, bernardo rodriguez-martin, jana ebler, carsten hain, vasiliki tsapalou, arda sã¶ylev, patrick hã¼ther, hufsah ashraf, timofey prodanov, mila asparuhova, sarah hunt, tobias rausch, tobias marschall, jan o korbel see 1 usage example → aws igenomes agriculture amazon.science biology caenorhabditis elegans danio rerio genetic genomic homo sapiens life sciences mus musculus rattus norvegicus reference index common reference genomes hosted on aws s3. can be used when aligning and analysing raw dna sequencing data. details → usage examples nf-core analysis pipelines by phil ewels see 1 usage example → allthebacteria assembly bacteria bioinformatics fasta genomic life sciences microbial genomics short read sequencing whole genome sequencing all bacterial isolate whole-genome sequencing data from insdc, uniformly assembled, quality-controlled, annotated, and searchable. details → usage examples allthebacteria - all bacterial genomes assembled, available and searchable by hunt m, lima l, anderson d, hawkey j, shen w, lees j, iqbal i see 1 usage example → amazon-pqa amazon.science machine learning natural language processing amazon product questions and their answers, along with the public product information. details → usage examples answering product-questions by utilizing questions from other contextually similar products by ohad rozen, david carmel, avihai mejer, vitaly mirkis, and yftah ziser see 1 usage example → answer reformulation amazon.science machine learning natural language processing original stackexchange answers and their voice-friendly reformulation. details → usage examples voice-based reformulation of community answers by simone filice, nachshon cohen & david carmel see 1 usage example → automatic speech recognition (asr) error robustness amazon.science deep learning machine learning natural language processing speech recognition sentence classification datatasets with asr errors. details → usage examples using phoneme representations to build predictive models robust to asr errors by anjie fang, simone filice, nut limsopatham and oleg rokhlenko see 1 usage example → bodym dataset amazon.science computer vision deep learning the first large public body measurement dataset including 8978 frontal and lateral silhouettes for 2505 real subjects, paired with height, weight and 14 body measurements. the following artifacts are made available for each subject. subject height subject weight subject gender two black-and-white silhouette images of subject standing in frontal and side pose respectively with full body in view. 14 body measurements in cm - {ankle girth, arm-length, bicep girth, calf girth, chest girth, forearm girth, height, hip girth, leg-length, shoulder-breadth, shoulder-to-crotch length, thigh girth, waist girth, wrist girth} the data is split into 3 sets - training, test set a, test set b. for the training and test-a sets, subjects are photographed and 3d-scanned by in a lab by technicians. for the test-b set, subjects ... details → usage examples human body measurement estimation with adversarial augmentation by nataniel ruiz, miriam bellver, timo bolkart, ambuj arora, ming c. lin, javier romero and raja bala see 1 usage example → boltz-1 training data deep learning life sciences molecular docking open source software protein folding this is the data used to train the boltz-1 model. it contains the following datasets: our pre-processed version of the protein data bank our pre-processed version of the multiple sequence alignment data for each protein chain the raw multiple sequence alginment data. a pre-computed symmetry file for symmetry correction during training details → usage examples boltz-1: democratizing biomolecular interaction modeling by j wohlwend, g corso, s passaro, m reveiz, k leidal, w swiderski, t portnoi, i chinn, j silterra, t jaakkola, r barzilay see 1 usage example → dialoglue: a natural language understanding benchmark for task-oriented dialogue amazon.science conversation data machine learning natural language processing this bucket contains the checkpoints used to reproduce the baseline results reported in the dialoglue benchmark hosted on evalai ( https://evalai.cloudcv.org/web/challenges/challenge-page/708/overview ). the associated scripts for using the checkpoints are located here: https://github.com/alexa/dialoglue . the associated paper describing the benchmark and checkpoints is here: https://arxiv.org/abs/2009.13570 . the provided checkpoints include the convbert model, a bert-esque model trained on a large open-domain conversational dataset. it also includes the convbert-dg and bert-dg checkpoints descri... details → usage examples dialoglue: a natural language understanding benchmark for task-oriented dialogue by shikib mehri, mihail eric, dilek hakkani-tur see 1 usage example → enriched topical-chat dataset for knowledge-grounded dialogue systems amazon.science conversation data machine learning natural language processing this dataset provides extra annotations on top of the publicly released topical-chat dataset( https://github.com/alexa/topical-chat ) which will help