corrections to the terra modis forward look-up table (lut) update for the period 2012 - 2017. a polarization correction has been applied to the l1b reflective solar bands (rsb). read our doc on how to get aws credentials to retrieve this data: details → usage examples download files from s3 using boto3 by lpdaac see 1 usage example → modis/terra surface reflectance daily l2g global 1km and 500m sin grid v061 datacenter earth observation geospatial global hdf ice land opendap satellite imagery the mod09ga version 6.1 product provides an estimate of the surface spectral reflectance of terra moderate resolution imaging spectroradiometer (modis) bands 1 through 7, corrected for atmospheric conditions such as gasses, aerosols, and rayleigh scattering. provided along with the 500 meter (m) surface reflectance, observation, and quality bands are a set of ten 1 kilometer (km) observation bands and geolocation flags. the reflectance layers from the mod09ga are used as the source data for many of the modis land products. known issues for complete information about known issues please refer to the modis/viirs land quality assessment website . improvements/changes from previous versions the version 6.1 level-1b (l1b) products have been improved by undergoing various calibration changes that include: changes to the response-versus-scan angle (rvs) approach that affects reflectance bands for aqua and terra modis, corrections to adjust for the optical crosstalk in terra modis infrared (ir) bands, and corrections to the terra modis forward look-up table (lut) update for the period 2012 - 2017. a polarization correction has been applied to the l1b reflective solar bands (rsb). read our doc on how to get aws credentials to retrieve this data: details → usage examples download files from s3 using boto3 by lpdaac see 1 usage example → modis/terra surface reflectance daily l2g global 250m sin grid v061 datacenter earth observation geospatial global hdf ice land opendap the mod09gq version 6.1 product provides an estimate of the surface spectral reflectance of terra moderate resolution imaging spectroradiometer (modis) 250 meter (m) bands 1 and 2, corrected for atmospheric conditions such as gasses, aerosols, and rayleigh scattering. along with the 250 m surface reflectance bands are the quality assurance (qa) layer and five observation layers. this product is intended to be used in conjunction with the quality and viewing geometry information of the 500 m product (mod09ga). known issues for complete information about known issues please refer to the modis/viirs land quality assessment website . improvements/changes from previous versions the version 6.1 level-1b (l1b) products have been improved by undergoing various calibration changes that include: changes to the response-versus-scan angle (rvs) approach that affects reflectance bands for aqua and terra modis, corrections to adjust for the optical crosstalk in terra modis infrared (ir) bands, and corrections to the terra modis forward look-up table (lut) update for the period 2012 - 2017. a polarization correction has been applied to the l1b reflective solar bands (rsb). read our doc on how to get aws credentials to retrieve this data: details → usage examples download files from s3 using boto3 by lpdaac see 1 usage example → modis/terra vegetation indices 16-day l3 global 250m sin grid v061 datacenter earth observation geospatial global hdf ice land opendap satellite imagery the terra moderate resolution imaging spectroradiometer (modis) vegetation indices (mod13q1) version 6.1 data are generated every 16 days at 250 meter (m) spatial resolution as a level 3 product. the mod13q1 product provides two primary vegetation layers. the first is the normalized difference vegetation index (ndvi) which is referred to as the continuity index to the existing national oceanic and atmospheric administration-advanced very high resolution radiometer (noaa-avhrr) derived ndvi. the second vegetation layer is the enhanced vegetation index (evi), which has improved sensitivity over high biomass regions. the algorithm chooses the best available pixel value from all the acquisitions from the 16 day period. the criteria used is low clouds, low view angle, and the highest ndvi/evi value.along with the vegetation layers and the two quality layers, the hdf file will have modis reflectance bands 1 (red), 2 (near-infrared), 3 (blue), and 7 (mid-infrared), as well as four observation layers. known issues for complete information about known issues please refer to the modis/viirs land quality assessment website . improvements/changes from previous versions the version 6.1 level-1b (l1b) products have been improved by undergoing various calibration changes that include: changes to the response-versus-scan angle (rvs) approach that affects reflectance bands for aqua and terra modis, corrections to adjust for the optical crosstalk in terra modis infrared (ir) bands, and corrections to the terra modis forward look-up table (lut) update for the period 2012 - 2017. a polarization correction has been applied to the l1b reflective solar bands (rsb). read our doc on how to get aws credentials to retrieve this data: details → usage examples download files from s3 using boto3 by lpdaac see 1 usage example → modis/terra+aqua brdf/albedo albedo daily l3 global - 500m v061 earth observation geospatial global hdf land opendap satellite imagery tiles the moderate resolution imaging spectroradiometer (modis) mcd43a3 version 6.1 albedo model dataset is produced daily using 16 days of terra and aqua modis data at 500 meter (m) resolution. data are temporally weighted to the ninth day of the 16 day which is reflected in the julian date in the file name.users are urged to use the band specific quality flags to isolate the highest quality full inversion results for their own science applications as described in the user guide .the mcd43a3 provides black-sky albedo (directional hemispherical reflectance) and white-sky albedo (bihemispherical reflectance) data at local solar noon for modis bands 1 through 7 and the visible, near infrared (nir), and shortwave bands. along with the albedo layers are the simplified mandatory quality layers for each of the 10 bands. essential quality information provided in the corresponding mcd43a2 data file should be consulted when using this product.known issues ... details → usage examples download files from s3 using boto3 by lpdaac see 1 usage example → modis/terra+aqua brdf/albedo model parameters