infrastructure cloud multicloud global infrastructure customers and case studies analyst reports whitepapers blog products and pricing google cloud pricing google workspace pricing see all products solutions infrastructure modernization databases application modernization smart analytics artificial intelligence security productivity & work transformation industry solutions devops solutions small business solutions see all solutions resources google cloud affiliate program google cloud documentation google cloud quickstarts google cloud marketplace learn about cloud computing support code samples cloud architecture center training certifications google for developers google cloud for startups system status release notes engage contact sales find a partner become a partner events podcasts developer center press corner google cloud on youtube google cloud tech on youtube follow on x join user research we're hiring. join google cloud! community forums about google privacy site terms google cloud terms cookies management controls our third decade of climate action: join us sign up for the google cloud newsletter subscribe language ‪english‬ ‪english‬ ‪deutsch‬ ‪español‬ ‪español (latinoamérica)‬ ‪français‬ ‪indonesia‬ ‪italiano‬ ‪português (brasil)‬ ‪简体中文‬ ‪繁體中文‬ ‪日本語‬ ‪한국어‬ nyc open data - nyc open data wp engine opendata 311 search all nyc.gov websites menu home data about overview dashboard laws and reports learn how to join a class open data week project gallery glossary faq contact us sign in home open data for all new yorkers open data is free public data published by new york city agencies and other partners. attend a training class or sign up for the nyc open data mailing list to get the latest news and find out about upcoming events. search the nyc open data catalog help build open data week with us! how you can get involved new to open data learn what data is and how to get started with our how to . data veterans view details on open data apis . get in touch ask a question, leave a comment, or suggest a dataset to the nyc open data team . dive into the data if you already know what you’re looking for, you can browse our data catalog . or, if you want to explore datasets that might be related to each other, try data clinic’s scout tool. see how creators are answering everyday questions with open data view projects discover nyc data datasets by agency search data by the city agency it comes from . datasets by category search data by categories such as business, education, and environment. new datasets view recently published datasets on the data catalog. popular datasets view some of the most popular datasets on the data catalog. you are leaving the city of new york's website. the city of new york does not imply approval of the listed destinations, warrant the accuracy of any information set out in those destinations, or endorse any opinions expressed therein or any goods or services offered thereby. like nyc.gov, all other web sites operate under the auspices and at the direction of their respective owners who should be contacted directly with questions regarding the content of these sites. you will be redirected within 5 seconds, assuming the target server is available. city of new york. 2025 all rights reserved. nyc is a trademark and service mark of the city of new york. privacy policy . terms of use . faq | contact us | for open data coordinators | designed by doitt nyc gov lab & studio sf opendata | datasf skip to main content skip to footer question about a dataset? contact the dataset owner at support@datasf.org datasf | open data portal search search home browse developers sf.gov datasf blog contact us sign in menu menu close home browse developers sf.gov datasf blog contact us sign in search san francisco open data portal home page terms of service terms of use privacy policy accessibility open data policy contact us © 2025 datala: information, insights, and analysis from the city of angels | los angeles - open data portal skip to main content skip to footer tyler data & insights data catalog geohub blog developer resources about search search sign in menu menu close data catalog geohub blog developer resources about sign in search world bank open data | data data home economies themes data & resources about english español français العربية 中文 world bank open data free and open access to global development data close browse world development indicators by economy or indicator data 360 the world bank open data site is expanding to data360, a newly curated collection of data, analytics, and tools to foster development. this is an ongoing effort and we welcome your feedback investing in people through education, health, social protection, and gender equality people profile promoting economic policies for growth prosperity profile sustaining the planet’s natural resources for inclusive growth planet profile promoting clean energy access, sustainable transport and livable cities infrastructure profile eliminating the digital divide digital profile world development indicators: countries and economies select an economy on the map to see data and access the economy profile high-income upper-middle-income lower-middle-income low-income no data learn more about the world development indicators world development indicators, a compilation of relevant,high-quality, and internationally comparable statistics about global development and the fight against poverty. visit wdi website other data platforms datasets and features on different worldbank data platforms time series visualise and analyse wdi and other world bank time series data in databank . international debt statistics statistical performance indicators global economic monitor view all on databank surveys find data collected through sample surveys in the microdata library . ethiopia high frequency phone survey monthly food price inflation estimates by country tanzania demographic and health survey and malaria indicator survey view all on microdata library datasets download publicly available world bank datasets from the data catalog . international debt statistics statistical performance indicators global economic monitor view all on data catalog news & stories news 2023 atlas of sustainable development goals jun 26, 2023 most recent real-time welfare monitoring in action: lessons from the ground kimberly bolch , nov 19, 2025 grain prices soften on supply,