01 day - net primary productivity (gsm model and eppley-vgpm algorithm) by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → satellite - ocean colour - modis - 1 day - net primary productivity (oc3 model and eppley-vgpm algorithm) biology oceans satellite imagery the aqua satellite platform carries a modis sensor that observes sunlight reflected from within the ocean surface layer at multiple wavelengths. these multi-spectral measurements are used to infer the concentration of chlorophyll-a (chl-a), most typically due to phytoplankton, present in the water. modelling is then used to compute an estimate of the net primary productivity (npp).the model used is based on the standard vertically generalised production model (vgpm). the vgpm is a "chlorophyll-based" model that estimates net primary production from chlorophyll using a temperature-de... details → usage examples accessing imos - srs - modis - 01 day - net primary productivity (oc3 model and eppley-vgpm algorithm) by laurent besnard accessing and search for any aodn dataset by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → satellite - ocean colour - modis - 1 day - optical water type (moore et al 2009 algorithm) oceans satellite imagery the aqua satellite platform carries a modis sensor that observes sunlight reflected from within the ocean surface layer at multiple wavelengths. these measurements at discrete wavelengths represent the spectrum of light leaving the water surface, and the shape of the spectrum is characteristic of the water optical properties.moore et al. (2009) applied a clustering technique to spectra to identify 8 sets of discrete optical water types. this product "owt_csiro" is produced using a csiro implementation of the moore et al. algorithm, and testing shows that it closely reproduces the res... details → usage examples accessing and search for any aodn dataset by laurent besnard accessing imos - srs - modis - 01 day - optical water type (moore et al 2009 algorithm) by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → satellite - ocean colour - modis - 1 day - picoplankton fraction (oc3 model and brewin et al 2012 algorithm) biology oceans satellite imagery the aqua satellite platform carries a modis sensor that observes sunlight reflected from within the ocean surface layer at multiple wavelengths. these multi-spectral measurements are used to infer the concentration of chlorophyll-a (chl-a), most typically due to phytoplankton, present in the water. an empirical relationship is then used to compute an estimate of the relative abundance of three phytoplankton size classes (micro, nano and picoplankton). the methods used to decompose chl_oc3 are described by brewin et al in two papers in 2010 and 2012. the two methods, denoted brewin2010at and br... details → usage examples accessing and search for any aodn dataset by laurent besnard accessing imos - srs - modis - 01 day - picoplankton fraction (oc3 model and brewin et al 2012 algorithm) by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → satellite - ocean colour - noaa20 - 1 day - diffuse attenuation coefficient (k490) biology oceans satellite imagery the noaa20 satellite platform carries a viirs sensor that observes sunlight reflected from within the ocean surface layer at multiple wavelengths. these multi-spectral measurements are used to infer the diffuse attenuation coefficient (kd) at 490nm wavelength which provides information on how light is attenuated in the water column. it is defined as the scaling length of the exponential decrease of the downwelling irradiance, and has units (m^-1). the viirs k490 product estimates kd at 490nm wavelength, using a semi-empirical model based on the ratio of water leaving radiances at 490nm and 555... details → usage examples accessing imos - satellite remote sensing - noaa20 - 01 day - diffuse attenuation coefficient (k490) by laurent besnard accessing and search for any aodn dataset by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → satellite - ocean colour - snpp - 1 day - diffuse attenuation coefficient (k490) biology oceans satellite imagery the snpp satellite platform carries a viirs sensor that observes sunlight reflected from within the ocean surface layer at multiple wavelengths. these multi-spectral measurements are used to infer the diffuse attenuation coefficient (kd) at 490nm wavelength which provides information on how light is attenuated in the water column. it is defined as the scaling length of the exponential decrease of the downwelling irradiance, and has units (m^-1). the viirs k490 product estimates kd at 490nm wavelength, using a semi-empirical model based on the ratio of water leaving radiances at 490nm and 555nm... details → usage examples accessing and search for any aodn dataset by laurent besnard accessing imos - satellite remote sensing - snpp - 01 day - diffuse attenuation coefficient (k490) by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → satellite - sea surface temperature - level 3 - multi sensor - 1 day - day and night time oceans satellite imagery this is a multi-sensor sstfnd l3s product for a single 24 hour period, derived using sea surface temperature retrievals from the viirs sensor on the suomi-npp satellite and jpss series of satellites, and avhrr sensor on the noaa and metop series of polar-orbiting satellites. the sensors and satellite platforms contributing to each file are listed in the sensor and platform global attributes in the file header. the sstfnd is derived by adding a constant 0.17 degc to the noaa avhrr sstskin observations, and 0 degc to the metop and viirs sstsubskin observations, after rejecting observations with ... details → usage examples accessing imos - srs - sst - l3s - multi sensor - 1 day - day and night time - australia by laurent besnard accessing and search for any aodn dataset by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → satellite - sea surface temperature - level 3 - multi sensor - 3 day - day and night time oceans satellite imagery this is a multi-sensor sstfnd l3s product for a single 72 hour period, derived using sea surface temperature retrievals from the viirs sensor on the suomi-npp satellite and jpss series of satellites, and avhrr sensor on the noaa and metop series of polar-orbiting satellites. the sensors and