nach bundesland hier gibt es offene daten mit bezug zu den jeweiligen ländern oder dem bund. hierfür werden die metadaten nach geokoordinaten und beschreibungen durchsucht. bundesgebiet baden-württemberg bayern berlin brandenburg bremen hamburg hessen mecklenburg-vorpommern niedersachsen nordrhein-westfalen rheinland-pfalz saarland sachsen sachsen-anhalt schleswig-holstein thüringen besuchen sie unsere social-media-kanäle mastodon linkedin gitlab kontakt datenschutzerklärung nutzungshinweise erklärung zur barrierefreiheit impressum seitenmenü daten sparql informationen open government open government data datenlizenz deutschland fragen und antworten hochwertige datensätze das portal metadaten-struktur ogd-dachli datenbereitstellung govdata das datenportal für deutschland open government: verwaltungsdaten transparent, offen und frei nutzbar suchbegriff suchen suchen erweiterte suche kartensuche the official portal for european data | data.europa.eu skip to main content log in english select your language close official eu languages: en english bg български es español cs čeština da dansk de deutsch et eesti el ελληνικά fr français ga gaeilge hr hrvatski it italiano lt lietuvių lv latviešu hu magyar mt malti nl nederlands pl polski pt português ro română sk slovenčina sl slovenščina fi suomi sv svenska european data data.europa.eu the official portal for european data menu close menu back previous items next items home data quick search sparql search api search metadata quality data in figures high-value datasets search european register for protected data european legal data space public procurement data space licensing assistant academy open data maturity 2024 odm in europe recommendations dimensions method and resources country profiles previous editions community apps podcasts collaboration channel events eu open data days contact us publications overview open data maturity data stories news and highlights newsletter studies country insights documentation about us your space to connect with the data community join us previous slides next slides play carousel pause carousel go to slide 1 1 of 1 search search search tutorial find out how to look for datasets of the european data portal, manually or programmatically. open data maturity see how your country progresses, compare to others and learn more about the best open data practices across europe. metadata quality explore datasets and data catalogues on the european data portal by theme, origin and evolution over time. data stories discover stories that data can tell via insightful data visualisations. academy develop your data literacy with free courses designed for all experience levels. collaboration channel connect with the open data community to discuss topics of your interest. apps access tools designed to support you with data exploration, standardisation and publishing. harvest data make your datasets accessible on the european data portal and reach a wider audience. studies consult in-depth analysis and research on the impact of open data in europe. explore popular datasets explore a curated selection of datasets available on the european data portal. directorate-general for financial stability, financial services and capital mar… consolidated list of persons, groups and entities subject to eu financial sanctions in its policy, the european union intervenes when necessary to prevent conflict or in response to emerging or actual crises. in certain cases, eu intervention can take the form of restrictive measures or 'sanctions'. the application of financial sanctions and more precisely the freezing of assets constitutes an obligation for both the public and private sector. in this regard, a particular responsibility falls on credit and financial institutions, since they are involved in the bulk of financial transfers. read more directorate-general for health and food safety pesticides this dataset include data for active substances used in plant protection products and maximum residue levels (mrls) authorised in eu. context: all foodstuffs intended for human or animal consumption in the european union (eu) are subject to a maximum residue level (mrl) of pesticides in their composition in order to protect animal and human health. read more publications office cordis - eu research projects under horizon europe (2021-2027) this dataset contains information about projects and their results funded by the european union under the horizon europe framework programme for research and innovation from 2021 to 2027. read more more datasets latest publications explore the latest content on the portal. skip results of view latest publications news 28 november 2025 black friday and open data: driving smarter shopping decisions this week marks black friday, one of the most anticipated shopping events worldwide. across europe, millions of consumers are preparing to hunt for deals online and in stores, while... news 27 november 2025 semic 2025 conference recap: interoperability for impact the semic 2025 conference took place in copenhagen on tuesday 25 november, and wednesday 26 november, bringing together experts from across europe to explore how semantic interoperability... news 24 november 2025 interoperability architecture solutions: building bridges for digital public services interoperability is the backbone of europe’s digital transformation. it enables public administrations, businesses, and citizens to interact seamlessly across borders and sectors. at the... see all new content upcoming events learn about the latest open data events in europe. event 28 november 2025 webinar 'building europe's data future: understanding the data union strategy' do you want to gain insights into the forthcoming data union strategy and learn more about the current and fut ure state o f the european data policy landscape? make sure you do not miss our... 2025-12-02 02 dec 2025 data summit luxembourg 2025 hybrid, luxembourg, luxembourg 2025-12-02 02 dec 2025 unesco-unfccc webinar ''what’s next for greening communities?'' online 2025-12-12 12 dec 2025 webinar ‘the final use case observatory: open data with real-world impact’ online more events join our newsletter get first-hand updates on upcoming data events, new publications, emerging data trends, and the latest news. subscribe don't ask me again close the portal in numbers understand the wealth of available information. 1 981 453 datasets 203 catalogues 36 countries 697 publications 262 data stories 10 learning materials trending topics find out the most searched topics and datasets. high value datasets ai datasets economy datasets health datasets eu financial sanctions dataset eu sanctions tracker digital product passport open data newsletter open data podcast introduction to open data data insights per country this website is managed by the publications office of the european union contact us contact the european data