daily l3 global - 500m v061 earth observation geospatial global hdf land opendap tiles the moderate resolution imaging spectroradiometer (modis) mcd43a1 version 6.1 bidirectional reflectance distribution function and albedo (brdf/albedo) model parameters dataset is produced daily using 16 days of terra and aqua modis data at 500 meter (m) resolution. data are temporally weighted to the ninth day of the retrieval period which is reflected in the julian date in the file name. mcd43a1 provides the three model weighting parameters (isotropic, volumetric, and geometric) used to derive the albedo ( mcd43a3 ) and nadir brdf-adjusted reflectance (nbar) ( mcd43a4 ) products.users are urged to use the band specific quality flags to isolate the highest quality full inversion results for their own science applications as described in the user guide .the mcd43a1 provides the three model weighting parameters for modis spectral bands 1 through 7 as well as the visible, near infrared (nir), and shortwave bands. along with the three-dimensional parameter layers for these bands are the simplified mandatory quality layers for each of the 10 bands. essential quality information provided in the corresponding mcd43a2 data file should be consulted when using this product. known issues for complete information about known issues please refer to the modis/viirs land quality assessment website . improvements/changes from previous versions the version 6.1 level-1b (l1b) products have been improved by undergoing various calibration changes that include: changes to the response-versus-scan angle (rvs) approach that affects reflectance bands for aqua and terra modis, corrections to adjust for the optical crosstalk in terra modis infrared (ir) bands, and corrections to the terra modis forward look-up table (lut) update for the period 2012 - 2017. a polarization correction has been applied to the l1b reflective solar bands (rsb). read our doc on how to get aws credentials to retrieve this data: details → usage examples download files from s3 using boto3 by lpdaac see 1 usage example → modis/terra+aqua brdf/albedo nadir brdf-adjusted ref daily l3 global - 500m v061 earth observation geospatial global hdf land opendap satellite imagery tiles the moderate resolution imaging spectroradiometer (modis) mcd43a4 version 6.1 nadir bidirectional reflectance distribution function (brdf)-adjusted reflectance (nbar) dataset is produced daily using 16 days of terra and aqua modis data at 500 meter (m) resolution. the view angle effects are removed from the directional reflectances, resulting in a stable and consistent nbar product. data are temporally weighted to the ninth day which is reflected in the julian date in the file name.users are urged to use the band specific quality flags to isolate the highest quality full inversion results for their own science applications as described in the user guide .the mcd43a4 provides nbar and simplified mandatory quality layers for modis bands 1 through 7. essential quality information provided in the corresponding mcd43a2 data file should be consulted when using this product.known issues for complete information about known issues please refer to the modis/viirs land quality assessment website . improvements/changes from previous versions the version 6.1 level-1b (l1b) products have been improved by undergoing various calibration changes that include: changes to the response-versus-scan angle (rvs) approach that affects reflectance bands for aqua and terra modis, corrections to adjust for the optical crosstalk in terra modis infrared (ir) bands, and corrections to the terra modis forward look-up table (lut) update for the period 2012 - 2017. a polarization correction has been applied to the l1b reflective solar bands (rsb). read our doc on how to get aws credentials to retrieve this data: details → usage examples download files from s3 using boto3 by lpdaac see 1 usage example → marginal build emissions rates (mbers) for electricity carbon climate csv electricity energy energy modeling environmental the climate trace coalition has developed and maintains free global hourly build margin data, also known as mbers, that are compliant with the greenhouse gas protocol's project protocol electricity sector guidance, guidelines for grid-connected electricity projects ("ghgp guidelines"). details → usage examples mber orientation and tutorial by climate trace see 1 usage example → mars spectrometry 2: gas chromatography for the sample analysis at mars data (sam) instrument analytics archives deep learning machine learning nasa smd ai planetary nasa missions like the curiosity and perseverance rovers carry a rich array of instruments suited to collect data and build evidence towards answering if mars ever had livable environmental conditions. these rovers can collect rock and soil samples and can take measurements that can be used to determine their chemical makeup. because communication between rovers and earth is severely constrained, with limited transfer rates and short daily communication windows, scientists have a limited time to analyze the data and make difficult inferences about the chemistry in order to prioritize the next operations and send those instructions back to the rover. this project aimed at building a model to automatically analyze gas chromatography mass spectrometry (gcms) data collected for mars exploration in order to help the scientists in their analysis of understanding the past habitability of mars. more information are available at https://mars.nasa.gov/msl/spacecraft/instruments/sam/ and the data from mars are available and described at https://pds-geosciences.wustl.edu/missions/msl/sam.htm . we request that you cite th... details → usage examples mars spectrometry: mars spectrometry 2 (challenge results) by drivendata team and nasa partners see 1 usage example → mars spectrometry: detect evidence for past habitability analytics archives deep learning machine learning nasa smd ai planetary nasa missions like the curiosity and perseverance rovers carry a rich array of instruments suited to collect data and build evidence towards answering if mars ever had livable environmental conditions. these rovers can collect rock and soil samples and can take measurements that can be used to determine their chemical makeup. because communication between rovers and earth is severely constrained, with limited transfer rates and short daily communication windows, scientists have a limited time to analyze the data and make difficult inferences about the chemistry in order to prioritize the next operations and send those instructions back to the rover. this project aimed at building a model to automatically