they represent collected at the university of pennsylvania . the dataset is doubly parallel: for each language, words are stored parallel to images that represent the word, and parallel to the word's translation into english (and corresponding images.) details → the university of california san francisco brain metastases stereotactic radiosurgery (ucsf-bmsr) mri dataset cancer life sciences magnetic resonance imaging medical imaging medicine radiology the university of california san francisco brain metastases stereotactic radiosurgery (ucsf-bmsr) dataset is a public, clinical, multimodal brain mri dataset consisting of 560 brain mris from 412 patients with expert annotations of 5136 brain metastases. data consists of registered and skull stripped t1 post-contrast, t1 pre-contrast, flair and subtraction (t1 pre-contrast - t1 post-contrast) images and voxelwise segmentations of enhancing brain metastases in nifti format. details → ucsc genome browser sequence and annotations bioinformatics biology genetic genomic life sciences the ucsc genome browser is an online graphical viewer for genomes, a genome browser, hosted by the university of california, santa cruz (ucsc). the interactive website offers access to genome sequence data from a variety of vertebrate and invertebrate species and major model organisms, integrated with a large collection of aligned annotations. this dataset is a copy of the mysql tables in myisam binary and tab-sep format and all binary files in custom formats, sometimes referred as 'gbdb'-files. data from the ucsc genome browser is free and open for use by anyone. however, every genome... details → usearch molecules biology chemical biology life sciences pharmaceutical collection of 7 billion small molecules in smiles notation with 28 billion fingerprints, including maccs, ecfp4, fcfp4, and pubchem, with pre-constructed usearch indexes over them. details → umbra synthetic aperture radar (sar) open data earth observation geospatial image processing satellite imagery stac synthetic aperture radar umbra satellites generate the highest resolution synthetic aperture radar (sar) imagery ever offered from space, up to 16-cm resolution. sar can capture images at night, through cloud cover, smoke and rain. sar is unique in its abilities to monitor changes. the open data program (odp) features over twenty diverse time-series locations that are updated frequently, allowing users to experiment with sar's capabilities. we offer single-looked spotlight mode in either 16cm, 25cm, 35cm, 50cm, or 1m resolution, and multi-looked spotlight mode. the odp also features an assorted collection of over ... details → university of british columbia sunflower genome dataset agriculture biodiversity bioinformatics biology food security genetic genomic life sciences whole genome sequencing this dataset captures sunflower's genetic diversity originating from thousands of wild, cultivated, and landrace sunflower individuals distributed across north america.the data consists of raw sequences and associated botanical metadata, aligned sequences (to three different reference genomes), and sets of snps computed across several cohorts. details → venus l2a cloud-optimized geotiffs activity detection agriculture cog disaster response earth observation environmental geospatial image processing land cover natural resource satellite imagery stac the venâµs science mission is a joint research mission undertaken by cnes and isa, the israel space agency. it aims to demonstrate the effectiveness of high-resolution multi-temporal observation optimised through copernicus, the global environmental and security monitoring programme. venâµs was launched from the centre spatial guyanais by a vega rocket, during the night from 2017, august 1st to 2nd. thanks to its multispectral camera (12 spectral bands in the visible and near-infrared ranges, with spectral characteristics provided here ), it acquires imagery every 1-2 days over 100+ areas at... details → will two do? varying dimensions in electrocardiography: the physionet/computing in cardiology challenge 2021 the electrocardiogram (ecg) is a non-invasive representation of the electrical activity of the heart. although the twelve-lead ecg is the standard diagnostic screening system for many cardiological issues, the limited accessibility of twelve-lead ecg devices provides a rationale for smaller, lower-cost, and easier to use devices. while single-lead ecgs are limiting [1], reduced-lead ecg systems hold promise, with evidence that subsets of the standard twelve leads can capture useful information [2], [3], [4] and even be comparable to twelve-lead ecgs in some limited contexts. in 2017 we challen... details → zest: zeroshot learning from task descriptions machine learning natural language processing zest is a benchmark for zero-shot generalization to unseen nlp tasks, with 25k labeled instances across 1,251 different tasks. details → inaturalist licensed observation images biodiversity bioinformatics conservation earth observation life sciences inaturalist is a community science effort in which participants share observations of living organisms that they encounter and document with photographic evidence, location, and date. the community works together reviewing these images to identify these observations to species. this collection represents the licensed images accompanying inaturalist observations. details → stdpopsim species resources genetic maps life sciences population genetics recombination maps simulations contains all resources (genome specifications, recombination maps, etc.) required for species specific simulation with the stdpopsim package. these resources are originally from a variety of other consortium and published work but are consolidated here for ease of access and use. if you are interested in adding a new species to the stdpopsim resource please raise an issue on the stdpopsim github page to have the necessary files added here. details → abeja cc ja internet japanese natural language processing web archive a large japanese language corpus created through preprocessing common crawl data details → usage examples building a large-scale japanese corpus from common crawl and its preprocessing by kyo hattori tutorial of abeja cc ja dataset by kyo hattori see 2 usage examples → amazon bin image dataset amazon.science computer vision machine learning the amazon bin image dataset contains over 500,000 images and metadata from bins of a pod in an operating amazon fulfillment center. the bin images in this dataset are captured as robot units carry pods as part of normal amazon fulfillment center operations. details → usage examples amazon bin image dataset challenge by silverbottlep amazon inventory reconciliation using ai by pablo rodriguez bertorello, sravan sripada, nutchapol dendumrongsup see 2 usage examples → digital earth pacific mangroves extent and density climate earth observation environmental geoscience geospatial pacific mangroves beta version product is an extension of the global