39187 national... - 27037 u.s. department of... - 18968 u.s. environmental... - 6786 earth data... - 5459 state of california - 4187 department of energy - 3927 department of commerce - 3202 show more organizations publishers u.s. geological survey - 34683 national... - 10987 national center... - 8941 u.s. epa office of... - 4068 substance abuse... - 3049 national park service - 2944 data.cityofnewyork.us - 2636 data.austintexas.gov - 2621 national institute... - 2447 opendata.maryland.gov - 2447 show more publishers bureaus united states... - 34668 national... - 27037 national... - 11106 environmental... - 4694 substance abuse... - 3121 national park service - 2942 energy programs - 2794 administration for... - 2466 national institute... - 2447 bureau of the census - 1722 show more bureaus close 364,448 datasets found state electric vehicle population data state of washington — this dataset shows the battery electric vehicles (bevs) and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (phevs) that are currently registered through washington state department... csv rdf json xml city crime data from 2020 to present city of los angeles — starting on march 7th, 2024, the los angeles police department (lapd) will adopt a new records management system for reporting crimes and arrests. this new system is... csv rdf json xml federal united states mint annual reports department of the treasury — complete audited financial and program report html state iowa school performance profiles state of iowa — the iowa school performance profiles is an online tool showing how public schools performed on required measures. the website was developed to meet both federal and... html state lottery powerball winning numbers: beginning 2010 state of new york — go to http://on.ny.gov/1gpwihd on the new york lottery website for past powerball results and payouts. csv rdf json xml federal baby names from social security card applications - national data social security administration — the data (name, year of birth, sex, and number) are from a 100 percent sample of social security card applications for 1880 on. html zip federal supply chain greenhouse gas emission factors v1.3 by naics-6 u.s. environmental protection agency — the datasets comprise greenhouse gas (ghg) emission factors (factors) for 1,016 u.s. commodities as defined by the 2017 version of the north american industry... csv csv federal fruit and vegetable prices department of agriculture — how much do fruits and vegetables cost? ers estimated average prices for 153 commonly consumed fresh and processed fruits and vegetables. xls federal national student loan data system department of education — the national student loan data system (nslds) is the national database of information about loans and grants awarded to students under title iv of the higher... xls xls xls xls xls xls 11 more in dataset county warehouse and retail sales montgomery county of maryland — this dataset contains a list of sales and movement data by item and department appended monthly. update frequency : monthly csv rdf json xml federal u.s. chronic disease indicators u.s. department of health & human services — cdc's division of population health provides a cross-cutting set of 115 indicators developed by consensus among cdc, the council of state and territorial... csv rdf json xml federal 2017-18 arrests civil rights data collection department of education — this set of excel file contains data on student referrals to law enforcement by disability and student-related arrests by disability for all states. it also contains... xls xls xls xls xls xls 1 more in dataset federal dynamic small business search (dsbs) small business administration — the small business administration maintains the dynamic small business search (dsbs) database. as a small business registers in the system for award management, there... html city motor vehicle collisions - crashes city of new york — the motor vehicle collisions crash table contains details on the crash event. each row represents a crash event. the motor vehicle collisions data tables contain... csv rdf json xml federal nutrition, physical activity, and obesity - behavioral risk factor surveillance system u.s. department of health & human services — this dataset includes data on adult's diet, physical activity, and weight status from behavioral risk factor surveillance system. this data is used for dnpao's data,... csv rdf json xml city air quality city of new york — dataset contains information on new york city air quality surveillance data. air pollution is one of the most important environmental threats to urban populations... csv rdf json xml state real estate sales 2001-2023 gl state of connecticut — the office of policy and management maintains a listing of all real estate sales with a sales price of $2,000 or greater that occur between october 1 and september 30... csv rdf json xml federal walkability index u.s. environmental protection agency — the walkability index dataset characterizes every census 2019 block group in the u.s. based on its relative walkability. walkability depends upon characteristics of... zip csv esri rest html federal drug overdose death rates, by drug type, sex, age, race, and hispanic origin: united states u.s. department of health & human services — data on drug overdose death rates, by drug type and selected population characteristics. please refer to the pdf or excel version of this table in the hus 2019 data... csv rdf json xml crime incidents in the last 30 days district of columbia — the dataset contains a subset of locations and attributes of incidents reported in the asap (analytical services application) crime report database by the district of... html arcgis geoservices rest api csv zip geojson kml 1 more in dataset 1 2 3 ... 18223 » 364,448 datasets found you can also access this registry using the api (see api docs ). didn't find what you're looking for? suggest a dataset here . about open government website policies sitemap performance.gov login twitter github data.gov an official website of the gsa's technology transformation services about gsa accessibility statement foia requests no fear act data office of the inspector general performance reports privacy policy looking for u.s. government information and services? visit usa.gov pubmed clipboard, search history,