rabinowicz, paris bratsos, guy martin, epameinondas fritzilas, et al. see 2 usage examples → reference indexes for krepp bioinformatics life sciences metagenomics microbiome reference index krepp is an alignment-free method for estimating distances and phylogenetic placement of individual reads to many thousands of reference genomes in aâ scalable manner using k-mers. this dataset includes k-mer-based indexes consisting of ultra-large reference genome sets that can be efficiently analyzed using krepp. details → usage examples tutorial for using krepp indexes for metagenomic sequence analysis. by ali osman berk sapci a k-mer-based maximum likelihood method for estimating distances of reads to genomes enables genome-wide phylogenetic placement. by sapci et al. (2024) see 2 usage examples → reference data for hifi human wgs genetic health homo sapiens life sciences long read sequencing mapping variant annotation vcf whole genome sequencing reference data bundle for analyzing hifi human whole genome sequencing data details → usage examples pacbio wgs variant pipeline readme by pacific biosciences of california, inc consolidated analysis with the pacbio wgs variant pipeline by pacific biosciences of california, inc see 2 usage examples → satpm2.5 air quality atmosphere environmental health netcdf fine particulate matter (pm2.5) concentrations are estimated using information from satellite-, simulation- and monitor-based sources. aerosol optical depth from multiple satellites (modis, viirs, misr, seawifs, and viirs) and their respective retrievals (dark target, deep blue, maiac) is combined with simulation (geos-chem) based upon their relative uncertainties as determined using ground-based sun photometer (aeronet) observations to produce geophysical estimates that explain most of the variance in ground-based pm2.5 measurements. a subsequent statistical fusion incorporates additional inf... details → usage examples importing and plotting the v6.gl.02.04 dataset into matlab by aaron van donkelaar enhancing global estimation of fine particulate matter concentrations by including geophysical a priori information in deep learning by siyuan shen, chi li, aaron van donkelaar, nathan jacobs, chenguang wang, and randall v. martin see 2 usage examples → satellogic earthview dataset cog computer vision earth observation geospatial image processing satellite imagery stac satellogic earthview dataset includes high-resolution satellite images captured over all continents. the dataset is organized in hive partition format and hosted by aws. the dataset can be accessed via stac browser or aws cli. each item of the dataset corresponds to a specific region and date, with some of the regions revisited for additional data. the dataset provides top-of-atmosphere (toa) reflectance values across four spectral bands (red, green, blue, near-infrared) at a ground sample distance (gsd) of 1 meter, accompanied by comprehensive metadata such as off-nadir angles, sun elevation,... details → usage examples earthview: a large scale remote sensing dataset for self-supervision by velã¡zquez, diego and rodrã­guez, pau and alonso, sergio and gonfaus, josep m. and gonzã¡lez, jordi and, richarte, gerardo and marã­n, javier and bengio, yoshua and lacoste, alexandre explore satellogic earthview in sagemaker studio lab (smsl) by javier marin see 2 usage examples → seefar v0 biodiversity climate coastal earth observation environmental geospatial global machine learning mapping natural resource satellite imagery sustainability a collection of multi-resolution satellite images from both public and commercial satellites. the dataset is specifically curated for training geospatial foundation models. details → usage examples seefar: satellite agnostic multi-resolution dataset for geospatial foundation models by lowman, j., zheng, k. l., fraser, r., the, j. v. g., & valipour, m. getting started with seefar for multi-resolution geospatial analysis by james lowman - coastal carbon see 2 usage examples → sentinel-1 slc dataset for south and southeast asia, taiwan, korea and japan disaster response earth observation environmental geospatial satellite imagery synthetic aperture radar the s1 single look complex (slc) dataset contains synthetic aperture radar (sar) data in the c-band wavelength. the sar sensors are installed on a two-satellite (sentinel-1a and sentinel-1b) constellation orbiting the earth with a combined revisit time of six days, operated by the european space agency. the s1 slc data are a level-1 product that collects radar amplitude and phase information in all-weather, day or night conditions, which is ideal for studying natural hazards and emergency response, land applications, oil spill monitoring, sea-ice conditions, and associated climate change effec... details → usage examples rapid flood and damage mapping using synthetic aperture radar in response to typhoon hagibis, japan by cheryl w. j. tay, sang-ho yun, shi tong chin, alok bhardwaj, jungkyo jung & emma m. hill sentinel-1 opendataset wiki and tutorials by earth observatory of singapore see 2 usage examples → sounds of central african landscapes biodiversity biology ecosystems geospatial land life sciences natural resource survey archival soundscapes recorded in the rainforest landscapes of central africa, with a focus on the vocalizations of african forest elephants (loxodonta cyclotis). details → usage examples listen to the rainforest chorus that's helping scientists protect african elephants by amazon staff you can now hear rainforest sounds worldwide-here's why that matters by rachel fobar see 2 usage examples → state of colorado elevation data geospatial imaging mapping the state of colorado has gathered public historical elevation data. details → usage examples colorado public elevation data s3 browser by state of colorado oit-gis colorado aws open data elevation data guide by state of colorado oit-gis see 2 usage examples → sub-meter canopy tree height of california in 2020 by ctrees.org aerial imagery cog conservation deep learning earth observation environmental geospatial image processing land cover canopy tree height maps for california in 2020. created using a deep learning model on very-high-resolution airborne imagery from the national agriculture imagery program (naip) by united states department of agriculture (usda). details → usage examples sub-meter tree height mapping of california using aerial images and lidar-informed u-net model by fabien h wagner, sophia roberts, alison l ritz, griffin carter, ricardo dalagnol, samuel favrichon, mayumi cm hirye, martin brandt, philippe ciais and sassan saatchi canopy height unlocked: california forest resources detailed in new tree-level map by daniel melling see 2 usage examples → tiger training cancer computational pathology computer vision deep learning grand-challenge.org histopathology life sciences "this dataset contains the training data for the tumor infiltrating lymphocytes in breast cancer or tiger challenge. tiger is the