migration flows explore global migration data, country-by-country. migration, refugees, and asylum seekers explore the migration of people across the world. minerals explore the production, reserves and value of minerals. mpox explore the data produced by the world health organization and africa cdc on mpox (monkeypox). natural disasters explore the global frequency, severity, and consequences of disasters. plastic waste and pollution explore global data on plastic waste generation, pollution, and trade. population & demography explore data from the united nations world population prospects. poverty explore key poverty indicators from world bank data. species habitat availability explore future projections of species' habitats under different agricultural interventions. water, sanitation and hygiene (wash) explore global data on water, sanitation and hygiene access. our world in data is free and accessible for everyone. help us do this work by making a donation. donate now our world in data is a project of global change data lab , a nonprofit based in the uk (reg. charity no. 1186433). our charts, articles, and data are licensed under cc by , unless stated otherwise. tools and software we develop are open source under the mit license . third-party materials, including some charts and data, are subject to third-party licenses. see our faqs for more details. explore topics data insights resources latest articles sdg tracker teaching with owid about about us organization funding team jobs faqs rss feeds research & writing data insights follow us privacy policy legal disclaimer grapher license registry of open data on aws registry of open data on aws the registry of open data on aws is now available on aws data exchange all datasets on the registry of open data are now discoverable on aws data exchange alongside 3,000+ existing data products from category-leading data providers across industries. explore the catalog to find open, free, and commercial data sets. learn more about aws data exchange explore the catalog about this registry exists to help people discover and share datasets that are available via aws resources. see recent additions and learn more about sharing data on aws . get started using data quickly by viewing all tutorials with associated sagemaker studio lab notebooks . see all usage examples for datasets listed in this registry . see datasets from epa , allen institute for artificial intelligence (ai2) , digital earth africa , data for good at meta , nasa space act agreement , nih strides , noaa open data dissemination program , space telescope science institute , and amazon sustainability data initiative . search datasets (currently 13 matching datasets ) add to this registry if you want to add a dataset or example of how to use a dataset to this registry, please follow the instructions on the registry of open data on aws github repository . unless specifically stated in the applicable dataset documentation, datasets available through the registry of open data on aws are not provided and maintained by aws. datasets are provided and maintained by a variety of third parties under a variety of licenses. please check dataset licenses and related documentation to determine if a dataset may be used for your application. tell us about your project if you have a project using a listed dataset, please tell us about it . we may work with you to feature your project in a blog post . the human sleep project bioinformatics deep learning life sciences machine learning medicine neurophysiology neuroscience the human sleep project (hsp) sleep physiology dataset is a growing collection of clinical polysomnography (psg) recordings. beginning with psg recordings from from ~15k patients evaluated at the massachusetts general hospital, the hsp will grow over the coming years to include data from >200k patients, as well as people evaluated outside of the clinical setting. this data is being used to develop caisr (complete ai sleep report), a collection of deep neural networks, rule-based algorithms, and signal processing approaches designed to provide better-than-human detection of conventional psg... details → usage examples expert-level sleep scoring with deep neural networks. journal of the american medical informatics association (jamia). 2018 dec 1;25(12):1643-1650. pmcid: pmc6289549. by biswal s, kulas j, sun h, goparaju b, westover mb*, bianchi mt*, et al. excess brain age reflected in the electroencephalogram of sleep predicts reduced life expectancy. neurobiology of aging. 2019 dec 23. pii: s0197-4580(19)30443-9. doi: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2019.12.015. pmcid: pmc7085452. by paixao l, sikka p, sun h, jain a, hogan j, thomas rj, et al. brain age from the electroencephalogram of sleep. neurobiol aging. 2019 feb;74:112-120. pmcid: pmc6478501. by sun h, paixao l, oliva jt, goparaju b, carvalho dz, van leeuwen kg, et al. alternative remedies for insomnia: a proposed method for personalized therapeutic trials. nature and science of sleep. 2017;9:97-108. pmcid: pmc5364017. by romero k, goparaju b, russo k, westover mb, bianchi mt. sleep eeg-based brain age index is a biomarker for dementia. jama network open. 2020 sep 1;3(9):e2017357. doi: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2020.17357. pmid: 32986106; pmcid: pmc7522697. by ye e, sun h, leone mj, paixao l, thomas rj, lam ad, et al. see 37 usage examples → common crawl encyclopedic internet natural language processing web archive a corpus of web crawl data composed of over 300 billion web pages. details → usage examples on the impact of publicly available news and information transfer to financial markets by metod jazbec, barna pã¡sztor, felix faltings, nino antulov-fantulin, petter n. kolm one click to download all the web pages you may want by jader dias ransacking your password reset tokens by lukas euler language is not all you need: aligning perception with language models by shaohan huang, li dong, wenhui wang, yaru hao, saksham singhal, shuming ma, et al search the common crawl using lambda functions by andres riancho see 35 usage examples → the cancer genome atlas cancer genomic life sciences strides whole genome sequencing the cancer genome atlas (tcga), a collaboration between the national cancer institute (nci) and national human genome research institute (nhgri), aims to generate comprehensive, multi-dimensional maps of the key genomic changes in major types and subtypes of cancer. tcga