on the spectral gradient of each channel. max... details → usage examples how to access ges disc data using python by james acker, jerome alfred, helen amos, chris battisto, thomas hearty, alexis hunzinger, lena iredell, christoph keller, binita kc, carlee loeser, ariana louise, kristan morgan, dieu my t. nguyen, dana ostrenga, xiaohua pan, kanan patel, brianna r. pagã¡n, andrey savtchenko, elliot sherman, suhung shen, jian su,joseph wysk, rupesh shrestha. see 1 usage example → arco-ocean analysis ready data atmosphere climate hydrology ice machine learning oceans physics zarr arco-ocean is an analysis-ready cloud-optimized dataset providing physical properties of the ocean, waves, and sea ice for a period of about 28 years between the 1st of january 1993 and the 30th of june 2021. the dataset includes also atmospheric and hydrological variables that would be needed as boundary conditions and used to drive a numerical simulation. the dataset is the result of collecting, processing, merging and optimizing for the cloud different data sources, all retrospective analyses (reanalyses) or hindcasts of different earth system components. the dataset has been designed with ... details → usage examples computing the oceanic el nino index (oni) with xarray and arco-ocean by ogs see 1 usage example → arpa-e perform forecast data energy environmental geospatial model solar the arpa-e perform program is an arpa-e funded program that aim to use time-coincident power and load seeks to develop innovative management systems that represent the relative delivery risk of each asset and balance the collective risk of all assets across the grid. a risk-driven paradigm allows operators to: (i) fully understand the true likelihood of maintaining a supply-demand balance and system reliability, (ii) optimally manage the system, and (iii) assess the true value of essential reliability services. this paradigm shift is critical for all power systems and is essential for grids wi... details → usage examples arpa-e perform by arpa-e see 1 usage example → aster level 1t precision terrain corrected registered at-sensor radiance v004 cog cog earth observation global land orbit the terra advanced spaceborne thermal emission and reflection radiometer (aster) level 1 precision terrain corrected registered at-sensor radiance (ast_l1t) data contains calibrated at-sensor radiance, which corresponds with the aster level 1b ( ast_l1b ) that has been geometrically corrected and rotated to a north-up utm projection. the ast_l1t is created from a single resampling of the corresponding aster l1a ( ast_l1a ) product. the bands available in the ast_l1t depend on the bands in the ast_l1a and can include up to three visible and near infrared (vnir) bands, six shortwave infrared (swir) bands, and five thermal infrared (tir) bands. the ast_l1t dataset does not include the aft-looking vnir band 3. the ast_l1t product has a spatial resolution of 15 meters (m) for the vnir bands, 30 m for the swir bands, and 90 m for the tir bands.the precision terrain correction process incorporates gls2000 digital elevation data with derived ground control points (gcps) to achieve topographic accuracy for all daytime scenes where correlation statistics reach a minimum threshold. alternate levels of correction are possible (systematic terrain, systematic, or precision) for scenes acquired at night or that otherwise represent a reduced quality ground image (e.g., cloud cover).for daytime images, if the vnir or swir telescope collected data and precision correction was attempted, each precision terrain corrected image will have an accompanying independent quality assessment. it will include the geometric correction available for distribution as both a text file and single band browse images with the valid gcps overlaid.this multi-file product also includes georeferenced full resolution browse images. the number of browse images and the band combinations of the images depends on the bands available in the corresponding ast_l1a dataset.known issues since october 1, 2017, a correction addresses zero-filled scans in low-latitude, ascending orbit (nighttime) tir data. additional details are available in the aster l1t user advisory. data from the swir bands collected after april 2008 may show anomalous saturation and striping. see the aster swir user advisory for further information. improvements/changes from previous versions enhanced geolocation accuracy: version 4 uses collection 2 ground control points (gcps) compared against global land survey (gls) 2000 standards to improve positional accuracy. radiometric calibration update: version 4 applies radiometric calibration coefficient version 5 (rcc v5) to improve the radiometric accuracy of the raw dns, based on research by tsuchida and others (2020) , published in remote sensing. read our doc on how to get aws credentials to... details → usage examples download files from s3 using boto3 by lpdaac see 1 usage example → atlas/icesat-2 l2a global geolocated photon data v006 atmosphere datacenter earth observation global hdf ice land water this data set (atl03) contains height above the wgs 84 ellipsoid (itrf2014 reference frame), latitude, longitude, and time for all photons downlinked by the advanced topographic laser altimeter system (atlas) instrument on board the ice, cloud and land elevation satellite-2 (icesat-2) observatory. the atl03 product was designed to be a single source for all photon data and ancillary information needed by higher-level atlas/icesat-2 products. as such, it also includes spacecraft and instrument parameters and ancillary data not explicitly required for atl03. read our doc on how to get aws creden... details → usage examples accessing and working with icesat-2 data in the cloud by andy barrett, jennifer roebuck, amy steiker see 1 usage example → atlas/icesat-2 l3a land and vegetation height v006 atmosphere datacenter earth observation global hdf ice land this data set (atl08) contains along-track heights above the wgs84 ellipsoid (itrf2014 reference frame) for the ground and canopy surfaces. the canopy and ground surfaces are processed in fixed 100 m data segments, which typically contain more than 100 signal photons. the data were acquired by the advanced topographic laser altimeter system (atlas) instrument on board the ice, cloud and land elevation satellite-2 (icesat-2) observatory. read our doc on how to get aws credentials to retrieve this data: https://data.nsidc.earthdatacloud.nasa.gov/s3credentialsreadme details → usage examples accessing and working with icesat-2 data in the cloud by andy barrett, jennifer roebuck, and amy steiker. see 1