see 1 usage example → man truckscenes autonomous vehicles computer vision deep learning gps imu lidar logistics machine learning object detection object tracking perception radar robotics transportation a large scale multimodal dataset for autonomous trucking. sensor data was recorded with a heavy truck from man equipped with 6 lidars, 6 radars, 4 cameras and a high-precision gnss. man truckscenes allows the research community to come into contact with truck-specific challenges, such as trailer occlusions, novel sensor perspectives, and terminal environments for the first time. it comprises more than 740 scenes of 20s each within a multitude of different environmental conditions. bounding boxes are available for 27 object classes, 15 attributes, and a range of more than 230m. the scenes are t... details → usage examples mantruckscenes: a multimodal dataset for autonomous trucking in diverse conditions by felix fent, fabian kuttenreich, florian ruch, farija rizwin, et al truckscenes devkit tutorial by felix fent, fabian kuttenreich, florian ruch, farija rizwin pypi package by felix fent, fabian kuttenreich, florian ruch, farija rizwin truckscenes devkit by felix fent, fabian kuttenreich, florian ruch, farija rizwin see 4 usage examples → modis myd13a1, mod13a1, myd11a1, mod11a1, mcd43a4 agriculture disaster response geospatial natural resource satellite imagery data from the moderate resolution imaging spectroradiometer (modis), managed by the u.s. geological survey and nasa. five products are included: mcd43a4 (modis/terra and aqua nadir brdf-adjusted reflectance daily l3 global 500 m sin grid), mod11a1 (modis/terra land surface temperature/emissivity daily l3 global 1 km sin grid), myd11a1 (modis/aqua land surface temperature/emissivity daily l3 global 1 km sin grid), mod13a1 (modis/terra vegetation indices 16-day l3 global 500 m sin grid), and myd13a1 (modis/aqua vegetation indices 16-day l3 global 500 m sin grid). mcd43a4 has global coverage, all... details → usage examples astraea earth ondemand by astraea, inc. see 1 usage example → modis/aqua surface reflectance daily l2g global 1km and 500m sin grid v061 datacenter earth observation geospatial global hdf ice land opendap satellite imagery the myd09ga version 6.1 product provides an estimate of the surface spectral reflectance of aqua moderate resolution imaging spectroradiometer (modis) bands 1 through 7, corrected for atmospheric conditions such as gasses, aerosols, and rayleigh scattering. provided along with the 500 meter (m) surface reflectance, observation, and quality bands are a set of ten 1 kilometer observation bands and geolocation flags. the reflectance layers from the myd09ga are used as the source data for many of the modis land products. known issues prior to the aqua modis launch, band 6 exhibited several anomalous detectors. band 6 performance degraded seriously after launch and presently a majority of the band 6 detectors are non-functional. science users should read and use the non-functional detector flags and decide for themselves the optimum manner to handle non-functional detector "gaps" for their products. for complete information please refer to the modis characterization support team (mcst) website . for complete information about known issues please refer to the modis/viirs land quality assessment website . improvments/changes from previous version the version 6.1 level-1b (l1b) products have been improved by undergoing various calibration changes that include: changes to the response-versus-scan angle (rvs) approach that affects reflectance bands for aqua and terra modis, corrections to adjust for the optical crosstalk in terra modis infrared (ir) bands, and corrections to the terra modis forward look-up table (lut) update for the period 2012 - 2017. a polarization correction has been applied to the l1b reflective solar bands (rsb). read our doc on how to get aws credentials to retrieve this data: details → usage examples download files from s3 using boto3 by lpdaac see 1 usage example → modis/aqua surface reflectance daily l2g global 250m sin grid v061 datacenter earth observation geospatial global hdf ice land opendap the myd09gq version 6.1 product provides an estimate of the surface spectral reflectance of aqua moderate resolution imaging spectroradiometer (modis) 250 meter (m) bands 1 and 2, corrected for atmospheric conditions such as gasses, aerosols, and rayleigh scattering. along with the 250 m bands are the quality assurance (qa) layer and five observation layers. this product is intended to be used in conjunction with the quality and viewing geometry information of the 500 m product (myd09ga). known issues prior to the aqua modis launch, band 6 exhibited several anomalous detectors. band 6 performance degraded seriously after launch and presently a majority of the band 6 detectors are non-functional. science users should read and use the non-functional detector flags and decide for themselves the optimum manner to handle non-functional detector "gaps" for their products. for complete information please refer to the modis characterization support team (mcst) website . for complete information about known issues please refer to the modis/viirs land quality assessment website . improvments/changes from previous version the version 6.1 level-1b (l1b) products have been improved by undergoing various calibration changes that include: changes to the response-versus-scan angle (rvs) approach that affects reflectance bands for aqua and terra modis, corrections to adjust for the optical crosstalk in terra modis infrared (ir) bands, and corrections to the terra modis forward look-up table (lut) update for the period 2012 - 2017. a polarization correction has been applied to the l1b reflective solar bands (rsb). read our doc on how to get aws credentials to retrieve this data: details → usage examples download files from s3 using boto3 by lpdaac see 1 usage example → modis/terra calibrated radiances 5-min l1b swath 500m atmosphere datacenter earth observation environmental global hdf metadata opendap orbit the modis/terra calibrated radiances 5min l1b swath 500m data set contains calibrated and geolocated at-aperture radiances for 7 discrete bands located in the 0.45 to 2.20 micron region of the electromagnetic spectrum. these data are generated from the modis level 1a scans of raw radiance and in the process converted to geophysical units of w/(m^2 um sr). additional data are provided including quality flags, error estimates and calibration data.visible, shortwave infrared, and near infrared measurements are only made during the daytime (except band 26), while radiances for the thermal infrared region (bands 20-25, 27-36)