likely higher than one, but still low enough that the population will continue to shrink. explore more insights and data on changes in fertility rates across the world. continue reading november 25 seasonal flu kills about 700,000 people each year across the world seasonal influenza is sometimes seen as a mild illness, but it remains a major cause of death. in serious cases, it can cause deadly complications such as pneumonia, strokes, and heart attacks. researchers estimate that the flu causes about 400,000 respiratory deaths and 300,000 cardiovascular deaths globally each year. the flu is most dangerous for infants and older adults. the map here shows rates of respiratory deaths caused by the flu in adults aged 65 and over, averaged across 2002–2011 (excluding the 2009 swine flu pandemic). the data shows that death rates tend to be higher in south america, africa, and south asia than in europe or north america. i come from south america, and i found this surprising: most of what i hear about flu deaths tends to come from richer countries in the northern hemisphere. but the map shows that the flu is also deadly, in some cases even more so, in other regions where poverty, worse underlying health, limited access to healthcare, and lower vaccination coverage contribute to higher mortality. one explanation for my misperception might be that surveillance and reporting are stronger in the countries that i associate with deaths from flu. another could also be age differences: people in high-income countries tend to be older , so their total number of deaths — the ones you actually hear about — may still be higher, even if rates are lower. when you consider the total death toll, you realize that the numbers are very large on the whole. recall that the map only includes respiratory deaths, so the overall mortality is actually higher if we include other flu-related complications like cardiovascular disease. even if you account for the uncertainty of estimates in low-income countries — due to limited testing and death registration — the overall pattern remains striking: seasonal influenza kills hundreds of thousands each year, with many of these deaths in south america, africa, and south asia. read more in our article, “how many people die from the flu?” continue reading november 22 afghans report the lowest life satisfaction in the world measuring happiness is difficult, but one way to understand how satisfied people are with their lives is to simply ask them. self-reported life satisfaction is one key metric that researchers often rely on. it asks people to imagine a hypothetical ladder, where the best possible life for them is a 10, and the worst possible life is a 0. they then have to place their current position on the ladder. the chart shows the three-year average scores from 2022 to 2024 for the four countries with the highest ratings and the four with the lowest. afghans reported the lowest life satisfaction in the world, far below any other country. this incredibly low score has been replicated in other studies. researchers recently compared afghans’ life satisfaction with international datasets dating back to 1946 and found it was the lowest ever recorded. two-thirds gave a score of 0 or 1 on the 10-point scale. see self-reported levels of life satisfaction in your own country. continue reading november 20 women are more likely to be victims of partner homicide women are much more likely than men to be killed by their intimate partner. the chart shows this across nine oecd countries in 2023. these deaths are rarely isolated events. research shows that partner homicides are usually the endpoint of a long pattern of coercive control — behaviors such as surveillance, isolation, intimidation, restrictions on daily life, and physical violence. recognizing both the gender imbalance and its roots in coercive control can help focus support services, encourage family and friends to act sooner, and increase social pressure against abusive behavior. while women face the highest risk from intimate partners, men make up about 80% of homicide victims globally. the gender split in partner homicides is therefore a striking exception. explore more data on homicide rates where the perpetrator is an intimate partner. continue reading november 17 growth of global gdp per capita has been remarkably steady over the past three decades this chart shows global gdp per capita, adjusted for inflation. looking at the world economy from this perspective, it is the steadiness of this change that stands out to me. average incomes per person have risen at a fairly constant pace of roughly 2% per year, interrupted only by the 2008–09 financial crisis and the 2020 pandemic. one reason this is noteworthy, in my view, is that national economies changed a lot during the same period. some economies slowed, many others grew , and more generally, some major political shifts took place. yet when all of this is aggregated, the global average followed a remarkably smooth upward track. the line in the chart ends in 2024, so it does not yet capture more recent developments. but a few recent articles, such as this one from the economist , look at data for 2025 and point to the same stability. past trends may not continue in the future. but this data reminds us that global economic aggregates can develop more steadily than the headlines might make us think. read more about what economic growth is and why it is important. continue reading november 15 how much co2 can the world emit while limiting global temperature rise? in 2015, countries worldwide signed the paris agreement , aiming to keep the global temperature rise “well below 2°c” and limit this increase to 1.5°c. to meet these targets, there are limits to the amount of carbon dioxide (co 2 ) that can be emitted. these are called carbon budgets . every year we emit more co 2 , these budgets shrink. (that’s because total warming is roughly proportional to cumulative co 2 .) in the chart, you