- delayed mode ocean currents ocean velocity oceans the newcastle (newc) hf ocean radar system covers an area of the central coast, new south wales, an area subject to the variability of the east australian current (eac) and its coupling with coastal winds, tides, and waves. in this area the eac separates from the coast and generates several eddies which control the larval species and the higher marine species and ecosystems in which they forage.the newc hf ocean radar system consists of two seasonde crossed loop direction finding stations located at sea rocks (32.441575 s 152.539022 e) and red head (33.010245 s 151.727059 e). these radars ope... details → usage examples accessing imos - acorn - newcastle hf ocean radar site (new south wales, australia) - delayed mode sea water velocity by laurent besnard accessing and search for any aodn dataset by laurent besnard see 2 usage examples → opencravat genetic genomic life sciences sqlite tertiary analysis variant annotation opencravat is a module variant annotation tool developed by karchinlab at johns hopkins. this dataset is a mirror of the opencravat store available at https://store.opencravat.org . you can configure opencravat to use this mirror by editing the "cravat-system.yml" file. the path to this file is in the first output line of the command "oc config system". in that file, change the value of "store_url" to " https://opencravat-store-aws.s3.amazonaws.com" . details → usage examples changing the opencravat store url by kyle moad opencravat by karchinlab see 2 usage examples → oregon health & science university chronic neutrophilic leukemia dataset cancer genomic life sciences the ohsu-cnl study offers the whole exome and rna-sequencing on a cohort of 100 cases with rare hematologic malignancies such as chronic neutrophilic leukemia (cnl), atypical chronic myeloid leukemia (acml), and unclassified myelodysplastic syndrome/myeloproliferative neoplasms (mds/mpn-u). this dataset contains open rna-seq gene expression quantification data. details → usage examples genomic landscape of neutrophilic leukemias of ambiguous diagnosis by zhang h, wilmot b, bottomly d et al. genomic data commons by national cancer institute see 2 usage examples → palsar-2 scansar turkey & syria earthquake (l2.1 & l1.1) agriculture cog deafrica disaster response earth observation geospatial natural resource satellite imagery stac sustainability synthetic aperture radar jaxa has responded to the earthquake events in turkey and syria by conducting emergency disaster observations and providing data as requested by the disaster and emergency management authority (afad), ministry of interior in turkey, through sentinel asia and the international disaster charter. additional information on the event and dataset can be found here . the 25 m palsar-2 scansar is normalized backscatter data of palsar-2 broad area observation mode with observation width of 350 km. polarization data are stored as 16-bit digital numbers (dn). the dn values can be converted to gamma naught... details → usage examples alos series open and free data by jaxa eorc alos-2 observations of earthquakes in southeastern turkey in 2023 by jaxa eorc see 2 usage examples → pancreatic cancer organoid profiling cancer genetic genomic life sciences strides transcriptomics whole genome sequencing this study generated a collection of patient-derived pancreatic normal and cancer organoids and it was sequenced using whole genome sequencing (wgs), whole exome sequencing (wxs) and rna-seq as well as matched tumor and normal tissue if available. the study provides a valuable resource for pancreatic cancer researchers. the dataset contains open rna-seq gene expression quantification data and controlled wgs/wxs/rna-seq aligned reads, wxs annotated somatic mutation, wxs raw somatic mutation, and rna-seq splice junction quantification. details → usage examples genomic data commons by national cancer institute organoid profiling identifies common responders to chemotherapy in pancreatic cancer by tiriac h, belleau p, engle dd, plenker d, deschãªnes a, somerville td, et al. see 2 usage examples → public utility data liberation project climate climate model electricity energy energy modeling environmental government records infrastructure open source software utilities the public utility data liberation project (pudl) provides analysis-ready energy system data to climate advocates, researchers, policymakers, and journalists. pudl is an open source data processing pipeline that makes us energy data easier to access and use programmatically. hundreds of gigabytes of valuable data are published by us government agencies, but it's often difficult to work with. pudl takes the original spreadsheets, csv files, and databases and turns them into a unified resource. this allows users to spend more time on novel analysis and less time on data preparation. this... details → usage examples state hourly electricity demand by catalyst cooperative pudl data access by catalyst cooperative see 2 usage examples → rapid nrt flood maps agriculture disaster response earth observation environmental water near real-time and archival data of high-resolution (10 m) flood inundation dataset over the contiguous united states, developed based on the sentinel-1 sar imagery (2016-current) archive, using an automated radar produced inundation diary (rapid) algorithm. details → usage examples near real-time nonobstructed flood inundation mapping by synthetic aperture radar by xinyi shen, emmanouil n. anagnostou, george h. allen, g. robert brakenridge, albert j. kettner inundation extent mapping by synthetic aperture radar: a review by xinyi shen, dacheng wang, kebiao mao, emmanouil anagnostou, and yang hong see 2 usage examples → redasa covid-19 open data coronavirus covid-19 information retrieval life sciences natural language processing text analysis the realtime data synthesis and analysis (redasa) covid-19 snapshot contains the output of the curation protocol produced by our curator community. a detailed description can be found in our paper . the first s3 bucket listed in resources contains a large collection of medical documents in text format extracted from the cord-19 dataset , plus other sources deemed relevant by the redasa consortium. the second s3 bucket contains a series of documents surfaced by amazon kendra that were considered relevant for each medical question asked. the final s3 bucket contains the groundtruth annotations cr... details → usage examples curadr - curation platform by redasa consortium, imperial college london using a secure, continually updating, web source processing pipeline to support the real-time data synthesis and analysis of scientific literature: development and validation study by uddhav vaghela, simon