portal team subscribe to our newsletter follow us on x/twitter linkedin instagram youtube legal legal notice cookies accessibility about us our mission, vision and values publications office newsletter other services eu law eu tenders eu research results eu whoiswho eu publications discover more on europa.eu contact the eu call us 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 use other telephone options write us via our contact form meet us at one of the eu centres social media search for eu social media channels eu institutions search all eu institutions and bodies eu institutions search for eu institutions data.europa.eu data.europa.eu our world in data our world in data browse by topic data insights resources about subscribe donate gdoc / admin popular pages poverty child mortality global education co₂ emissions migration war & peace life expectancy population growth artificial intelligence research and data to make progress against the world’s largest problems. read about our mission 13,794 charts 123 topic pages 32 data explorers 13,794 charts across 123 topics all free: open access and open source new article · 10 min read just ten species make up almost half the weight of all wild mammals on earth a small number of species dominate the distribution of wild mammal biomass. hannah ritchie and fiona spooner article · 8 min read the end of progress against extreme poverty? in the last three decades, the world has made progress against extreme poverty faster than ever before. but unless the poorest economies start growing, this period of progress against the worst form of poverty is over. max roser from our classics drivers of deforestation the world loses 5 million hectares of forest each year. what activities are driving this? hannah ritchie article · 10 min read anxiety is one of the world’s most common health issues. how have treatments evolved over the last 70 years? anxiety affects at least hundreds of millions of people every year. what treatments are available, and how have they changed over time? hannah ritchie and tuna acisu new article · 10 min read just ten species make up almost half the weight of all wild mammals on earth a small number of species dominate the distribution of wild mammal biomass. hannah ritchie and fiona spooner from our classics drivers of deforestation the world loses 5 million hectares of forest each year. what activities are driving this? hannah ritchie article · 8 min read the end of progress against extreme poverty? in the last three decades, the world has made progress against extreme poverty faster than ever before. but unless the poorest economies start growing, this period of progress against the worst form of poverty is over. max roser article · 10 min read anxiety is one of the world’s most common health issues. how have treatments evolved over the last 70 years? anxiety affects at least hundreds of millions of people every year. what treatments are available, and how have they changed over time? hannah ritchie and tuna acisu updates and announcements data update - this week we now show the latest gdp growth projections from the imf this data helps us understand how economies around the world have grown over the past decades, and how they are projected to grow in the coming years. read more announcement - 17 days ago watch hannah ritchie talk about her new book on climate change, clearing the air hannah was on several podcasts recently to talk about her book, which tackles 50 common myths and misconceptions about climate change read more new feature - 18 days ago you can now copy our charts to the clipboard for easy sharing just click the “share” icon in the bottom right of any chart and select “copy chart as image” read more see all updates subscribe to our newsletters subscribe to our newsletters receive our latest work by email. the owid brief twice a month stay up to date with our latest work plus curated highlights from across our world in data, twice a month. see example owid brief newsletter data insights every few days receive our bite-sized insights on how the world is changing, every few days. see example data insights newsletter subscribe by subscribing you are agreeing to the terms of our privacy policy . follow us x instagram threads facebook linkedin bluesky github we are a non-profit — all our work is free to use and open source. donate to support us data insights bite-sized insights on how the world is changing, published every few days. see all data insights november 27 china’s fertility rate has fallen to one, continuing a long decline that began before and continued after the one-child policy the 1970s were a decade shaped by fears about overpopulation . as the world’s most populous country, china was never far from the debate. in 1979, china designed its one-child policy , which was rolled out nationally from 1980 to curb population growth by limiting couples to having just one child. by this point, china’s fertility rate — the number of children per woman — had already fallen quickly in the early 1970s, as you can see in the chart. while china’s one-child policy restricted many families, there were exceptions to the rule. enforcement differed widely by province and between urban and rural areas. many couples were allowed to have another baby if their first was a girl. other couples paid a fine for having more than one. as a result, fertility rates never dropped close to one. in the last few years, despite the end of the one-child policy in 2016 and the government encouraging larger families, fertility rates have dropped to one. the fall in fertility today is driven less by policy and more by social and economic changes. this chart shows the total fertility rate, which is also affected by women delaying when they have children. cohort fertility tells us how many children the average woman will actually have over her lifetime. in china, this cohort figure is