welfare land use water use & stress forests & deforestation wildfires waste & pollution : plastic pollution oil spills lead pollution waste management clean water & sanitation clean water sanitation electricity : electricity mix food and agriculture food production : agricultural production meat & dairy production fish & overfishing crop yields animal welfare environmental impacts of food production farm size agricultural inputs : land use fertilizers pesticides employment in agriculture nutrition : hunger & undernourishment food supply food prices obesity famines diet compositions micronutrient deficiency human height poverty and economic development poverty & prosperity : poverty economic growth economic inequality foreign aid economic inequality by gender public sector : government spending state capacity taxation corruption healthcare spending education spending military personnel & spending work & employment : women's employment working hours global connections : trade & globalization migration tourism clean water & sanitation clean water sanitation education and knowledge education : global education literacy education spending knowledge : research & development internet books innovation and technological change technological change research & development artificial intelligence internet space exploration & satellites transport living conditions, community and wellbeing housing & infrastructure : homelessness access to energy indoor air pollution clean water & sanitation clean water sanitation light at night time use working hours relationships : marriages & divorces loneliness & social connections trust happiness & wellbeing : happiness & life satisfaction human development index (hdi) human rights and democracy human rights democracy state capacity women's rights lgbt+ rights corruption economic inequality by gender child labor violence against children & children's rights violence and war war & peace nuclear weapons homicides terrorism state capacity military personnel & spending violence against children & children's rights our world in data is free and accessible for everyone. help us do this work by making a donation. donate now our world in data is a project of global change data lab , a nonprofit based in the uk (reg. charity no. 1186433). our charts, articles, and data are licensed under cc by , unless stated otherwise. tools and software we develop are open source under the mit license . third-party materials, including some charts and data, are subject to third-party licenses. see our faqs for more details. explore topics data insights resources latest articles sdg tracker teaching with owid about about us organization funding team jobs faqs rss feeds research & writing data insights follow us privacy policy legal disclaimer grapher license our world in data our world in data browse by topic data insights resources about subscribe donate gdoc / admin popular pages poverty child mortality global education co₂ emissions migration war & peace life expectancy population growth artificial intelligence research and data to make progress against the world’s largest problems. read about our mission 13,794 charts 123 topic pages 32 data explorers 13,794 charts across 123 topics all free: open access and open source new article · 10 min read just ten species make up almost half the weight of all wild mammals on earth a small number of species dominate the distribution of wild mammal biomass. hannah ritchie and fiona spooner article · 8 min read the end of progress against extreme poverty? in the last three decades, the world has made progress against extreme poverty faster than ever before. but unless the poorest economies start growing, this period of progress against the worst form of poverty is over. max roser from our classics drivers of deforestation the world loses 5 million hectares of forest each year. what activities are driving this? hannah ritchie article · 10 min read anxiety is one of the world’s most common health issues. how have treatments evolved over the last 70 years? anxiety affects at least hundreds of millions of people every year. what treatments are available, and how have they changed over time? hannah ritchie and tuna acisu new article · 10 min read just ten species make up almost half the weight of all wild mammals on earth a small number of species dominate the distribution of wild mammal biomass. hannah ritchie and fiona spooner from our classics drivers of deforestation the world loses 5 million hectares of forest each year. what activities are driving this? hannah ritchie article · 8 min read the end of progress against extreme poverty? in the last three decades, the world has made progress against extreme poverty faster than ever before. but unless the poorest economies start growing, this period of progress against the worst form of poverty is over. max roser article · 10 min read anxiety is one of the world’s most common health issues. how have treatments evolved over the last 70 years? anxiety affects at least hundreds of millions of people every year. what treatments are available, and how have they changed over time? hannah ritchie and tuna acisu updates and announcements data update - this week we now show the latest gdp growth projections from the imf this data helps us understand how economies around the world have grown over the past decades, and how they are projected to grow in the coming years. read more announcement - 17 days ago watch hannah ritchie talk about her new book on climate change, clearing the air hannah was on several podcasts recently to talk about her book, which tackles 50 common myths and misconceptions about climate change read more new feature - 18 days ago you can now copy our charts to the clipboard for easy sharing just click the “share” icon in the bottom right of any chart and select “copy chart as image” read more see all updates subscribe to our newsletters subscribe to our newsletters receive our latest work by email. the owid brief twice a month stay up to date with our latest work plus curated highlights from across our world in data, twice a month. see example owid brief newsletter data insights every few days receive our bite-sized insights on how the world is changing, every few days. see example data insights