and manages all aspects of onboarding, data engineering, and operations. every dataset is validated so that we only deliver clean and actionable data. what are the datasets crux can help me onboard into my data ecosystem? public datasets severe storm event details the storm events database is an integrated database of severe weather events across the united states from 1950 to this year, with information about a storm event's location, azimuth, distance, impact, and severity, including the cost of damages to property and crops. use case: home improvement retailer understanding impact of storms on inventory technical reference pattern: dynamic insurance pricing model using this dataset earth engine datasets earth engine earth engine's public data archive includes more than forty years of historical imagery and scientific datasets, updated daily and available for online analysis. how has surface temperature changed over the past 30 years? what did this area look like before year 2000? kaggle datasets kaggle datasets inside kaggle you’ll find all the code and data you need to do your data science work. use over 80,000 public datasets and 400,000 public notebooks to conquer any analysis in no time. can you tackle some of the most vexing and provocative problems in data science? synthetic datasets cymbal investments the synthetic data represents transactions from automated trading bots operated by the fictional cymbal investments group, each using a single algorithm to guide its trading decisions. the records are derived from fix protocol (version 4.4) trade capture reports loaded into bigquery. how much did traders make from each individual trade? research datasets dataset search google's dataset search program has indexed almost 25 million datasets from across the web, giving you a single place to search for datasets and find links to where the data is. filter by recency, format, topic, and more. what datasets exist for < keyword you're interested in >? which sustainability datasets exist from last year are free for commercial use? feeling inspired? let’s solve your challenges together. learn how google cloud datasets transform the way your business operates with data and pre-built solutions. contact sales if there is a public dataset you would like to see onboarded, please contact public-data-help@google.com. with bigquery sandbox , you can try the full bigquery experience without a billing account or credit card. data partners and customer stories learn more from both sides of the dataset ecosystem: data providers and data consumers. blog post noaa and google cloud: a data match made in the cloud 5-min read video data vs. covid-19: how public data is helping flatten the curve video (19:35) case study hca healthcare: accelerating covid-19 response through a national portal 5-min read see all customers take the next step start building on google cloud with $300 in free credits and 20+ always free products. get started for free need help getting started? contact sales work with a trusted partner find a partner continue browsing see all products menu overview solutions products pricing resources docs support contact us  search_spark send_spark docs support console sign in start free start free contact us close accelerate your digital transformation whether your business is early in its journey or well on its way to digital transformation, google cloud can help solve your toughest challenges. learn more key benefits why google cloud top reasons businesses choose us. ai and ml get enterprise-ready ai. multicloud run your apps wherever you need them. global infrastructure build on the same infrastructure as google. data cloud make smarter decisions with unified data. modern infrastructure cloud next generation of cloud infrastructure. security protect your users, data, and apps. productivity and collaboration connect your teams with ai-powered apps. reports and insights executive insights curated c-suite perspectives. analyst reports read what industry analysts say about us. whitepapers browse and download popular whitepapers. customer stories explore case studies and videos. close industry solutions application modernization artificial intelligence apis and applications data analytics databases infrastructure modernization productivity and collaboration security startups and smb see all solutions industry solutions reduce cost, increase operational agility, and capture new market opportunities. retail analytics and collaboration tools for the retail value chain. consumer packaged goods solutions for cpg digital transformation and brand growth. financial services computing, data management, and analytics tools for financial services. healthcare and life sciences advance research at scale and empower healthcare innovation. media and entertainment solutions for content production and distribution operations. telecommunications hybrid and multi-cloud services to deploy and monetize 5g. games ai-driven solutions to build and scale games faster. manufacturing migration and ai tools to optimize the manufacturing value chain. supply chain and logistics enable sustainable, efficient, and resilient data-driven operations across supply chain and logistics operations. government data storage, ai, and analytics solutions for government agencies. education teaching tools to provide more engaging learning experiences. not seeing what you're looking for? see all industry solutions application modernization assess, plan, implement, and measure software practices and capabilities to modernize and simplify your organization’s business application portfolios. camp program that uses dora to improve your software delivery capabilities. modernize traditional applications analyze, categorize, and get started with cloud migration on traditional workloads. migrate from paas: cloud foundry, openshift tools for moving your existing containers into google's managed container services. migrate from mainframe automated tools and prescriptive guidance for moving your mainframe apps to the cloud. modernize software delivery software supply chain best practices - innerloop productivity, ci/cd and s3c. devops best practices processes and resources for implementing devops in your org. sre principles tools and resources for adopting sre in your org. platform engineering comprehensive suite of managed services and golden paths to build, manage, and scale idps. run applications at the edge guidance for localized and low latency apps on google’s hardware agnostic edge solution. architect for multicloud manage workloads across multiple clouds with a consistent platform. go serverless fully managed environment for developing, deploying and scaling apps. artificial intelligence add intelligence and efficiency to your business with ai and machine learning. customer engagement suite with google ai end-to-end application that combines our most