url: https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.00005 [2401.00005] consciousness as a logically consistent and prognostic model of reality skip to main content we gratefully acknowledge support from the simons foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. donate > cs > arxiv:2401.00005 help | advanced search all fields title author abstract comments journal reference acm classification msc classification report number arxiv identifier doi orcid arxiv author id help pages full text search open search go open navigation menu quick links login help pages about computer science > artificial intelligence arxiv:2401.00005 (cs) [submitted on 10 dec 2023] title: consciousness as a logically consistent and prognostic model of reality authors: evgenii vityaev view a pdf of the paper titled consciousness as a logically consistent and prognostic model of reality, by evgenii vityaev view pdf abstract: the work demonstrates that brain might reflect the external world causal relationships in the form of a logically consistent and prognostic model of reality, which shows up as consciousness. the paper analyses and solves the problem of statistical ambiguity and provides a formal model of causal relationships as probabilistic maximally specific rules. we suppose that brain makes all possible inferences from causal relationships. we prove that the suggested formal model has a property of an unambiguous inference: from consistent premises we infer a consistent conclusion. it enables a set of all inferences to form a consistent model of the perceived world. causal relationships may create fixed points of cyclic inter-predictable properties. we consider the "natural" classification introduced by john st. mill and demonstrate that a variety of fixed points of the objects' attributes forms a "natural" classification of the external world. then we consider notions of "natural" categories and causal models of categories, introduced by eleanor rosch and bob rehder and demonstrate that fixed points of causal relationships between objects attributes, which we perceive, formalize these notions. if the "natural" classification describes the objects of the external world, and "natural" concepts the perception of these objects, then the theory of integrated information, introduced by g. tononi, describes the information processes of the brain for "natural" concepts formation that reflects the "natural" classification. we argue that integrated information provides high accuracy of the objects identification. a computer-based experiment is provided that illustrates fixed points formation for coded digits. comments: 22 pages subjects: artificial intelligence (cs.ai) cite as: arxiv:2401.00005 [cs.ai] (or arxiv:2401.00005v1 [cs.ai] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2401.00005 focus to learn more arxiv-issued doi via datacite related doi : https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cogsys.2019.09.021 focus to learn more doi(s) linking to related resources submission history from: evgenii vityaev [ view email ] [v1] sun, 10 dec 2023 14:07:20 utc (1,175 kb) full-text links: access paper: view a pdf of the paper titled consciousness as a logically consistent and prognostic model of reality, by evgenii vityaev view pdf view license current browse context: cs.ai < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-01 change to browse by: cs references & citations nasa ads google scholar semantic scholar export bibtex citation loading... bibtex formatted citation × loading... data provided by: bookmark bibliographic tools bibliographic and citation tools bibliographic explorer toggle bibliographic explorer ( what is the explorer? ) connected papers toggle connected papers ( what is connected papers? ) litmaps toggle litmaps ( what is litmaps? ) scite.ai toggle scite smart citations ( what are smart citations? ) code, data, media code, data and media associated with this article alphaxiv toggle alphaxiv ( what is alphaxiv? ) links to code toggle catalyzex code finder for papers ( what is catalyzex? ) dagshub toggle dagshub ( what is dagshub? ) gotitpub toggle gotit.pub ( what is gotitpub? ) huggingface toggle hugging face ( what is huggingface? ) links to code toggle papers with code ( what is papers with code? ) sciencecast toggle sciencecast ( what is sciencecast? ) demos demos replicate toggle replicate ( what is replicate? ) spaces toggle hugging face spaces ( what is spaces? ) spaces toggle txyz.ai ( what is txyz.ai? ) related papers recommenders and search tools link to influence flower influence flower ( what are influence flowers? ) core recommender toggle core recommender ( what is core? ) author venue institution topic about arxivlabs arxivlabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arxivlabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arxiv features directly on our website. both individuals and organizations that work with arxivlabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arxiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. have an idea for a project that will add value for arxiv's community? learn more about arxivlabs . which authors of this paper are endorsers? | disable mathjax ( what is mathjax? ) about help contact arxiv click here to contact arxiv contact subscribe to arxiv mailings click here to subscribe subscribe copyright privacy policy web accessibility assistance arxiv operational status