url: https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.00004 [2401.00004] informational non-reductionist theory of consciousness that providing maximum accuracy of reality prediction skip to main content we gratefully acknowledge support from the simons foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. donate > cs > arxiv:2401.00004 help | advanced search all fields title author abstract comments journal reference acm classification msc classification report number arxiv identifier doi orcid arxiv author id help pages full text search open search go open navigation menu quick links login help pages about computer science > artificial intelligence arxiv:2401.00004 (cs) [submitted on 10 dec 2023] title: informational non-reductionist theory of consciousness that providing maximum accuracy of reality prediction authors: e.e. vityaev view a pdf of the paper titled informational non-reductionist theory of consciousness that providing maximum accuracy of reality prediction, by e.e. vityaev view pdf abstract: the paper considers a non-reductionist theory of consciousness, which is not reducible to theories of reality and to physiological or psychological theories. following this http url 's "informational approach" to the "mind-brain problem", we consider the reality through the prism of information about observed phenomena, which, in turn, is perceived by subjective reality through sensations, perceptions, feelings, etc., which, in turn, are information about the corresponding brain processes. within this framework the following principle of the information theory of consciousness (its) development is put forward: the brain discovers all possible causal relations in the external world and makes all possible inferences by them. the paper shows that its built on this principle: (1) also base on the information laws of the structure of external world; (2) explains the structure and functioning of the brain functional systems and cellular ensembles; (3) ensures maximum accuracy of predictions and the anticipation of reality; (4) resolves emerging contradictions and (5) is an information theory of the brain's reflection of reality. comments: 14 pages, 7 figures subjects: artificial intelligence (cs.ai) ; neurons and cognition (q-bio.nc) cite as: arxiv:2401.00004 [cs.ai] (or arxiv:2401.00004v1 [cs.ai] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2401.00004 focus to learn more arxiv-issued doi via datacite submission history from: evgenii vityaev [ view email ] [v1] sun, 10 dec 2023 13:27:10 utc (367 kb) full-text links: access paper: view a pdf of the paper titled informational non-reductionist theory of consciousness that providing maximum accuracy of reality prediction, by e.e. vityaev view pdf view license current browse context: cs.ai < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-01 change to browse by: cs q-bio q-bio.nc references & citations nasa ads google scholar semantic scholar export bibtex citation loading... bibtex formatted citation × loading... data provided by: bookmark bibliographic tools bibliographic and citation tools bibliographic explorer toggle bibliographic explorer ( what is the explorer? ) connected papers toggle connected papers ( what is connected papers? ) litmaps toggle litmaps ( what is litmaps? ) scite.ai toggle scite smart citations ( what are smart citations? ) code, data, media code, data and media associated with this article alphaxiv toggle alphaxiv ( what is alphaxiv? ) links to code toggle catalyzex code finder for papers ( what is catalyzex? ) dagshub toggle dagshub ( what is dagshub? ) gotitpub toggle gotit.pub ( what is gotitpub? ) huggingface toggle hugging face ( what is huggingface? ) links to code toggle papers with code ( what is papers with code? ) sciencecast toggle sciencecast ( what is sciencecast? ) demos demos replicate toggle replicate ( what is replicate? ) spaces toggle hugging face spaces ( what is spaces? ) spaces toggle txyz.ai ( what is txyz.ai? ) related papers recommenders and search tools link to influence flower influence flower ( what are influence flowers? ) core recommender toggle core recommender ( what is core? ) author venue institution topic about arxivlabs arxivlabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arxivlabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arxiv features directly on our website. both individuals and organizations that work with arxivlabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arxiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. have an idea for a project that will add value for arxiv's community? learn more about arxivlabs . which authors of this paper are endorsers? | disable mathjax ( what is mathjax? ) about help contact arxiv click here to contact arxiv contact subscribe to arxiv mailings click here to subscribe subscribe copyright privacy policy web accessibility assistance arxiv operational status