Audit and feedback to change diagnostic image ordering practices: A systematic review and meta-analysis | PLOS One Skip to main content Advertisement PLOS One Publish Submissions Getting Started Submission Guidelines Figures Tables Supporting Information LaTeX What We Publish Preprints Revising Your Manuscript Submit Now Calls for Papers Policies Best Practices in Research Reporting Human Subjects Research Animal Research Competing Interests Disclosure of Funding Sources Licenses and Copyright Data Availability Complementary Research Materials, Software and Code Sharing Ethical Publishing Practice Authorship Corrections, Expressions of Concern, and Retractions Manuscript Review and Publication Criteria for Publication Editorial and Peer Review Process Editor Center Resources for Editors Guidelines for Reviewers Accepted Manuscripts Comments Submit Your Manuscript Discover a faster, simpler path to publishing in a high-quality journal. PLOS ONE promises fair, rigorous peer review, broad scope, and wide readership – a perfect fit for your research every time. Learn More Submit Now About Why Publish with PLOS ONE Journal Information Staff Editors Editorial Board Section Editors Advisory Groups Find and Read Articles Publishing Information Publication Fees Press and Media Contact Browse Search Search advanced search Browse Subject Areas ? Click through the PLOS taxonomy to find articles in your field. For more information about PLOS Subject Areas, click here . Loading metrics Open Access Peer-reviewed Research Article Audit and feedback to change diagnostic image ordering practices: A systematic review and meta-analysis Oluwatosin Badejo, Roles Conceptualization, Formal analysis, Methodology, Writing – original draft, Writing – review & editing Affiliation Primary Healthcare Research Unit, Faculty of Medicine, Memorial University of Newfoundland and Labrador, St. John’s, Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9498-7947 ⨯ Maria Saleeb, Roles Investigation, Methodology, Writing – original draft, Writing – review & editing Affiliation Primary Healthcare Research Unit, Faculty of Medicine, Memorial University of Newfoundland and Labrador, St. John’s, Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada ⨯ Amanda Hall, Roles Conceptualization, Methodology, Supervision, Writing – review & editing Affiliations Primary Healthcare Research Unit, Faculty of Medicine, Memorial University of Newfoundland and Labrador, St. John’s, Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada, Population Health and Applied Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Memorial University of Newfoundland and Labrador, St. John’s, Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada ⨯ Bradley Furlong, Roles Conceptualization, Writing – review & editing Affiliation Primary Healthcare Research Unit, Faculty of Medicine, Memorial University of Newfoundland and Labrador, St. John’s, Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada ⨯ Gabrielle S. Logan, Roles Writing – review & editing Affiliation Primary Healthcare Research Unit, Faculty of Medicine, Memorial University of Newfoundland and Labrador, St. John’s, Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7007-9373 ⨯ Zhiwei Gao, Roles Conceptualization, Methodology, Writing – review & editing Affiliation Population Health and Applied Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Memorial University of Newfoundland and Labrador, St. John’s, Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada ⨯ Brendan Barrett, Roles Methodology, Supervision, Writing – review & editing Affiliations Population Health and Applied Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Memorial University of Newfoundland and Labrador, St. John’s, Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada, Discipline of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Memorial University of Newfoundland, Newfoundland and Labrador, St. John’s, Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada ⨯ Lindsay Alcock, Roles Methodology, Resources, Validation Affiliation Health Sciences Library, Memorial University of Newfoundland and Labrador, Newfoundland and Labrador, St. John’s,