url: https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.00008 [2401.00008] multispectral palmprint recognition based on three descriptors: lbp, shift lbp, and multi shift lbp with lda classifier skip to main content we gratefully acknowledge support from the simons foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. donate > eess > arxiv:2401.00008 help | advanced search all fields title author abstract comments journal reference acm classification msc classification report number arxiv identifier doi orcid arxiv author id help pages full text search open search go open navigation menu quick links login help pages about electrical engineering and systems science > image and video processing arxiv:2401.00008 (eess) [submitted on 18 dec 2023] title: multispectral palmprint recognition based on three descriptors: lbp, shift lbp, and multi shift lbp with lda classifier authors: salwua aqreerah , alhaam alariyibi , wafa el-tarhouni view a pdf of the paper titled multispectral palmprint recognition based on three descriptors: lbp, shift lbp, and multi shift lbp with lda classifier, by salwua aqreerah and 1 other authors view pdf abstract: local binary patterns (lbp) are extensively used to analyze local texture features of an image. several new extensions to lbp-based texture descriptors have been proposed, focusing on improving noise robustness by using different coding or thresholding schemes. in this paper we propose three algorithms (lbp), shift local binary pattern (slbp), and multi shift local binary pattern (mslbp),to extract features for palmprint images that help to obtain the best unique and characteristic values of an image for identification. the principal component analysis (pca) algorithm has been applied to reduce the size of the extracted feature matrix in random space and in the matching process; the linear discriminant analysis (lda) algorithm is used. several experiments were conducted on the large multispectral database (blue, green, red, and infrared) of the university of hong kong. as result, distinguished and high results were obtained where it was proved that, the blue spectrum is superior to all spectra perfectly. subjects: image and video processing (eess.iv) cite as: arxiv:2401.00008 [eess.iv] (or arxiv:2401.00008v1 [eess.iv] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2401.00008 focus to learn more arxiv-issued doi via datacite journal reference: 2022 ieee 2nd international maghreb meeting of the conference on sciences and techniques of automatic control and computer engineering (mi-sta), pp. 506 - 510 related doi : https://doi.org/10.1109/mi-sta54861.2022.9837520 focus to learn more doi(s) linking to related resources submission history from: alhaam aalariyibi ms. [ view email ] [v1] mon, 18 dec 2023 19:37:18 utc (377 kb) full-text links: access paper: view a pdf of the paper titled multispectral palmprint recognition based on three descriptors: lbp, shift lbp, and multi shift lbp with lda classifier, by salwua aqreerah and 1 other authors view pdf view license current browse context: eess.iv < prev | next > new | recent | 2024-01 change to browse by: eess references & citations nasa ads google scholar semantic scholar export bibtex citation loading... bibtex formatted citation × loading... data provided by: bookmark bibliographic tools bibliographic and citation tools bibliographic explorer toggle bibliographic explorer ( what is the explorer? ) connected papers toggle connected papers ( what is connected papers? ) litmaps toggle litmaps ( what is litmaps? ) scite.ai toggle scite smart citations ( what are smart citations? ) code, data, media code, data and media associated with this article alphaxiv toggle alphaxiv ( what is alphaxiv? ) links to code toggle catalyzex code finder for papers ( what is catalyzex? ) dagshub toggle dagshub ( what is dagshub? ) gotitpub toggle gotit.pub ( what is gotitpub? ) huggingface toggle hugging face ( what is huggingface? ) links to code toggle papers with code ( what is papers with code? ) sciencecast toggle sciencecast ( what is sciencecast? ) demos demos replicate toggle replicate ( what is replicate? ) spaces toggle hugging face spaces ( what is spaces? ) spaces toggle txyz.ai ( what is txyz.ai? ) related papers recommenders and search tools link to influence flower influence flower ( what are influence flowers? ) core recommender toggle core recommender ( what is core? ) author venue institution topic about arxivlabs arxivlabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arxivlabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arxiv features directly on our website. both individuals and organizations that work with arxivlabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arxiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. have an idea for a project that will add value for arxiv's community? learn more about arxivlabs . which authors of this paper are endorsers? | disable mathjax ( what is mathjax? ) about help contact arxiv click here to contact arxiv contact subscribe to arxiv mailings click here to subscribe subscribe copyright privacy policy web accessibility assistance arxiv operational status get status notifications via email or slack